CHAPTER CONTENTS  Approach to the patient  473  Pneumonia  505  Tuberculosis  512  Chronic obstructive   pulmonary disease  474  Diffuse parenchymal   lung disorders  516  Obstructive sleep apnoea/ hypopnoea syndrome  488  Pulmonary hypertension  520  Cystic fibrosis  490  Pleural effusion  525  Asthma  496  Pneumothorax  528   A productive cough  is a feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease (COPD) or bronchiectasis (large volumes). Yellow sputum does  not always indicate infection, as eosinophils in the sputum can give   the same appearance, e.g. in asthma. Green sputum usually implies  infection.   Haemoptysis  (blood-stained sputum) varies from small streaks of blood  to massive bleeding. •  Mild haemoptysis is usually caused by an acute infection, e.g. exa-  cerbations of COPD, but it should not be attributed to this without  investigation.  •  Other common causes are pulmonary infarction, bronchial carcinoma   and TB.  •  In lobar pneumonia, the sputum is usually rusty in appearance rather   than frankly blood-stained.  •  Pink, frothy sputum is seen in pulmonary oedema. •  In bronchiectasis, the blood is often mixed with purulent sputum. •  Massive haemoptyses ( >  200 mL of blood in 24 hours) are usually   due to bronchiectasis or TB. Haemoptysis should always be investigated. Often, the diagnosis can be  made from a CXR, but a normal CXR does not exclude disease. Bronchos- copy is only diagnostic in about 5% of patients with haemoptysis and a  normal CXR. For  management of a massive haemoptysis , see Box 13.1. Treatment of cough  is the treatment of the underlying cause and often  symptomatic. Anti-tussives include  codeine linctus  5–10 mL 3–4 times  daily or  pholcodine  5 mL 3–4 times daily. There is no evidence that expec- torants work but  simple linctus  5 mL 3–4 times daily is comforting.  mented. Breathlessness can be of sudden onset, e.g. in acute left ventricular   Box 13.1   Management of massive haemoptysis  As little as 250 mL can fill the bronchial tree and be life-threatening.  This is uncommon but frightening for everyone involved. •  Monitor oxygen saturation with oximetry, BP and pulse rate •  Exclude coagulation defects •  Perform a CXR •  Endotracheal intubation and suction may be required •  Urgent bronchoscopy is needed •  A double lumen endotracheal tube can be inserted by an   anaesthetist to protect the unaffected lung  •  Bronchial artery embolization is highly effective if the bleeding   vessel can be identified and bleeding continues  failure, or more progressive, as in COPD. It may vary at different times of  the day, e.g. in asthma it is usually worse in the morning. Breathlessness on lying flat occurs in, for example, pulmonary oedema  (p. 425). Breathlessness with a wheeze occurring on exposure to an   allergen is seen in asthma (e.g. horse riding). It can occur many hours   after exposure to an allergen (p. 520) in, for example, hypersensitivity  pneumonitis. Inhalation of foreign bodies can cause choking and acute shortage of  breath. Treatment is with the Heimlich manoeuvre. See Emergencies in  Medicine p. 714.  other causes, e.g. localized pain in costochondritis. Shoulder tip pain sug- gests irritation of the diaphragmatic pleura. Retrosternal soreness occurs  with tracheitis but also in other conditions, e.g. oesophagitis, when it is  usually burning. Chest pain should always be differentiated from cardiac  pain, which is usually a central crushing chest pain radiating to the jaw,  neck and left arm (p. 431).  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a slowly progressive  condition predominantly caused by smoking and is the sixth commonest  cause of death worldwide; its incidence is increasing. It is characterized by  airflow limitation, which is not fully reversible. The lungs have an abnor- mal inflammatory response to inhaled particles or gases, resulting in  airflow limitation. The GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive  Lung Disease, WHO) criteria for the diagnosis of lung disease are shown  in Table 13.1.  474  Table 13.1   COPD — Global Initiative in Obstructive Lung Disease  (GOLD) criteria  Stage of  COPD Function Symptoms of  breathlessness  None or mild  I Mild FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≥  80% predicted  On exertion  II Moderate FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  50% and  ≤  80% of  predicted  On minimal exertion,  e.g. dressing  III Severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  30% and  ≤  50% of  predicted  At rest  IV Very severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1<  30% predicted or  FEV1<  50% predicted plus  respiratory failure  tal pollution are the major causes for COPD in the world, although only  10–20% of heavy smokers develop COPD.   Inflammation, infection, scarring, loss of elasticity and increased secre-  tion of mucus (which blocks airways) all play a role. There is also an  imbalance of protease and antiprotease activity ( α1-antitrypsin being the  major antiprotease).    Small airways are particularly affected early in the process (obstructive   bronchiolitis).    If airway narrowing is combined with emphysema (loss of elastic recoil   of the lung with collapse of small airways during expiration), airflow  limitation is even more severe.   Microscopically , there is infiltration of the walls of bronchi and bron-  chioles by acute and chronic inflammatory cells, with ulceration of  epithelial layers leading to squamous metaplasia, scarring and thicken- ing of walls.   Systemic  sequelae including skeletal muscle dysfunction (see below). Thus, the characteristic physiological effects include airflow limitation and  abnormal alveolar gas exchange, leading to cor pulmonale (pulmonary  vascular disease).  with a smoking history of more than 20 pack years (1 pack year  =  20 ciga- rettes per day for 1 year). It is supported by objective evidence of airflow   475  limitation (or obstruction), usually with spirometry, which does not return  to normal with treatment.   Patients are usually over the age of 35, have a risk factor and present   with one or more of exertional breathlessness, chronic cough, regular  sputum production, frequent winter ‘exacerbations/bronchitis’ or  wheeze.    Effort intolerance, ankle swelling and fatigue also occur.   Chest pain and haemoptysis are uncommon and an alternative diagno-  sis should be looked for.    Extrapulmonary features occur, e.g. osteoporosis, depression and   metabolic problems leading to weight loss, loss of muscle mass and  weakness.  In mild COPD,  signs are absent, except for a wheeze.  In more severe COPD,  tachypnoea, prolonged expiration, pursed lip  breathing, use of accessory muscles and intercostal in-drawing on inspi- ration are seen. Hypercapnic patients will be vasodilated with a bound- ing pulse and a coarse flapping tremor of the outstretched hands. Severe  hypercapnia causes confusion and progressive drowsiness. Clubbing is  not  a sign of COPD and should alert the physician to the possibility of  bronchiectasis or lung cancer.   In advanced COPD,  patients develop cor pulmonale.  disease secondary to disease of the lung. It occurs in hypoxic patients with  COPD. Pulmonary hypertension can be present for years without causing  symptoms. Cor pulmonale is enlargement of the right ventricle secondary to  increased afterload due to primary lung disease in patients who have no  other cause of ventricular dysfunction. Symptoms include worsening exer- tional dyspnoea, fatigue and chest pain. On examination JVP is raised and  there is a right ventricular parasternal heave, a loud pulmonary compo- nent of the second heart sound, fluid retention and peripheral oedema.  airflow obstruction on spirometry.  Spirometry  shows evidence of airflow obstruction, with a reduced  forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) of  <  80%, a reduced FEV1to forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio of  <  70% and a reduced peak expira- tory flow rate (PEFR). In COPD reversibility is less than in asthmatic  patients (usually a change in FEV1 of  <  15%). Clinically significant  COPD is not present if the FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio return to normal  following treatment. FEV1 determines severity (Table 13.1) and can also  be used to monitor the course of the disease and response to therapy.  In addition, FEV1 can be used to test reversibility and is a predictor of  mortality. Five-year survival is about 50% when FEV1 falls to  <  1 L.  Serial home PEF measurements  can be useful to exclude asthma.  Reversibility to bronchodilators is also helpful in distinguishing patients  who have asthma and to aid further management.  Haemoglobin level and packed cell volume (PCV)  can be elevated as  a result of persistent hypoxaemia causing secondary polycythaemia.   Arterial blood gases (ABGs)  determine the degree of hypoxia and  hypercapnia. A baseline should always be taken for assessment of  patients in acute exacerbations and will help in assessing the need for  long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT).   Pulse oximetry  measures oxyhaemoglobin concentration but remember  that it does  not  give information about the CO2 ( P aCO2 or arterial carbon  dioxide tension) and hence alveolar ventilation.   CXR  can be normal or show hyper-expanded lung fields with low flat-  tened diaphragms and the presence of bullae.   Sputum culture  is usually unnecessary.  ECG  is not necessary in routine assessment of COPD but can show  advanced cor pulmonale; it is insensitive.   Alpha1-antitrypsin level and phenotype  may be helpful (young non- smokers, lower lobe emphysema, a family history of chest problems).  The normal range for  α1-antitrypsin is 2–4 g/L.  symptomatic relief and the prevention of exacerbations and complications.  No existing medication has been shown to  modify decline  in lung  function.  cessation programme has been shown to reduce the age-related decline in  FEV1, significantly in middle-aged smokers with mild airways obstruction,  and also lead to a decrease in cardiovascular and lung cancer mortality.  Smokers should be told to stop and an agreed target date set.  Nicotine  replacement therapy (NRT ) or  bupropion  is given, unless contraindicated,  in addition to a support programme to improve the chances of success.  NRT  aims to replace nicotine and thus reduce the craving for a cigarette.  Chewing gum  2 mg and 4 mg,  transdermal patches  16-hour and  24-hour in varying doses,  nasal spray  0.5 mg per spray, inhalational  10 mg  inhalation cartridge ,  sublingual tablets  2 mg and  lozenges  1, 2  and 4 mg are available. Nicotine patches should be limited to 3 months’  usage. NRT should be stopped if the patient restarts smoking.  Common  side-effects  are localized reactions, such as skin irritation with patches,  and minor sleep disturbances.  Contradictions  include vascular disease  and allergy to the drug; NRT should not be used in pregnancy or breast  feeding.   Bupropion  sustained release is a weak, selective inhibitor of the neuro-  exact mechanism by which it aids smoking cessation is unclear. The  dose is 150 mg once a day for 1 week prior to stopping smoking and  then 300 mg a day for a further 6–8 weeks, provided the patient abstains  from further cigarettes.  Side-effects  include seizures in about 1 in 1000  patients. Avoid in patients with a previous history of seizures, or a  concomitant administration of other medication that lowers the seizure  threshold. Other side-effects include hypersensitivity reactions (0.1%),  insomnia and dry mouth.   Combination therapy  with NRT or bupropion has so far shown no  significant benefit.   Varenicline  is an oral partial agonist on the  α4β2 subtype of nicotinic  acetylcholine receptor. A 12-week course increases the chances of stop- ping smoking four-fold; its main side-effect is nausea but severe depres- sion has been recorded.  the long-term relief of symptoms in patients with an FEV1<  80%  predicted.   remains the mainstay of treatment, despite the fact that  COPD is characterized by irreversible airway obstruction. It causes relaxa- tion of the smooth muscle and thus decreases airway resistance. Patients  with mild COPD feel less breathless.  Inhaler technique.  Patients should be taught a good technique for using  inhalers; this should be rechecked regularly. COPD patients may have  problems in effective coordination and find it hard to use simple  metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) . This can be improved by offering dif- ferent types of inhaler and/or a spacer.   Beta2-adrenoceptor agonists  act directly on the smooth muscle, have  a relatively rapid onset of action and can therefore be used for sympto- matic relief and prior to exercise. They can be used on an ‘as required’  or a ‘regular’ basis. • Short-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists. Salbutamol  is usually   given by pressurized aerosol inhalation 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs) up  to 4–6 times a day.  Terbutaline  is prescribed at a dose of 250–500 mcg  (1–2 puffs) up to 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists.  These are used in more  severe airway limitation (moderate and severe COPD). They include  salmeterol  50–100 mcg (2–4 puffs) twice a day and  formoterol  12 mcg  inhaled twice a day (depending on formulation and severity). Side-effects  include fine tremor, nervous tension, tachycardia, arrhyth- mias and hypokalaemia.  Antimuscarinic agents  are used for achieving greater and more pro-  longed bronchodilatation. • Short-acting antimuscarinics.  These cause bronchodilatation by  blocking the bronchoconstrictor effects of cholinergic nerves. They  have a longer onset of action and a more prolonged and greater  bronchodilatory effect than  β2 agonists, and are associated with less  toxicity.  Ipratropium bromide  is given by aerosol inhalation at a  dose of 20–40 mcg 3–4 times a day or by nebulized solution 250– 500 mcg 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting antimuscarinics.  Inhaled  tiotropium  18 mcg once daily   improves the duration of bronchodilatation and the fre quency of  acute exacerbations in patients with moderate to severe COPD. Side-effects  include dry mouth, nausea, constipation, bladder outlet  obstruction, exacerbation of acute-angle glaucoma and headache. In  mild disease  short-acting  β2 agonists or short-acting antimuscarinic  bronchodilators should be prescribed as required. Their effects are   478  additive and once airflow becomes more severe a regular antimuscarinic  can be added to a  β  agonist. Some patients prefer to use just one combined  inhaler  ipratropium bromide 20 mcg and salbutamol 100 mcg /metered  dose 2 puffs 4 times a day. Patients who remain symptomatic despite being treated with a combi-  nation of two short-acting bronchodilators or patients who have two or  more exacerbations a year should be prescribed a long-acting bronchodila- tor and an inhaled corticosteroid should be added (see below). Objective evidence of improvement in peak flow or FEV1 may be small  and the decision on whether to continue or stop therapy should be based  on the patient’s reported symptoms.  shortness of breath that interferes with daily activities. Inhaled corticoster- oids are usually reserved for stable COPD, but if already prescribed,  should be continued throughout exacerbations.  Oral corticosteroids  The use of corticosteroids in patients with COPD  remains contentious but a subgroup of patients respond to these drugs  with improvement of lung function. Therefore in symptomatic patients  a trial of  prednisolone  of 30 mg a day for 2 weeks can be given, with  spirometry measurements before and after the treatment period. If  patients show a response (FEV1 increases  >  15%), prednisolone should  be stopped and an inhaled steroid such as  beclometasone  400 mcg  twice daily started. Regular oral corticosteroids are not recommended,  but in advanced COPD, patients may require a maintenance dose when  steroids cannot be withdrawn after an exacerbation.   Inhaled corticosteroids.  An inhaled corticosteroid should be given, in  addition to a bronchodilator, in patients with an FEV1<  50% or with  two or more exacerbations a year requiring treatment with antibiotics  or oral corticosteroids. In addition, a trial of high-dose inhaled cortico- steroid for 3 weeks in patients with moderate airflow obstruction can  distinguish those patients who actually have a diagnosis of asthma and  not COPD. There are a number of  different formulations and inhalers available. The dose varies from 200 mcg to 800 mcg a day.  There are many  side-effects  associated with corticosteroids (see Box 15.2,  p. 585). Inhaled steroids cause considerably fewer systemic side-effects,  although at high doses adverse effects have been reported.  β2 receptor gene, increasing receptor numbers  and decreasing desensitization, whilst long-acting  β2 agonists may amplify  the anti-inflammatory effects of corticosteroids.   Corticosteroids are used in combination with  β2 agonists for mainte-  nance therapy in moderate to severe COPD, as they provide synergistic  benefit for patients. They produce better control of symptoms, improved  lung function and reduced exacerbation rates, with no greater risk of  side-effects.    Combinations include  fluticasone propionate  50–500 mcg per metered   dose and  salmeterol  25–50 mcg per metered dose, or  budesonide  100– 400 mcg per metered dose and  formoterol  6–12 mcg per metered dose.  Patients usually require 1–2 puffs twice a day.  479   Other combinations  of treatment can be used if monotherapy does not  control symptoms: • β2 agonists and antimuscarinics • β2 agonists and oral theophylline •  antimuscarinics and oral theophylline.  Clinical effectiveness should be judged by improvements in symptoms,  activities of daily living, exercise capacity and lung function. If there is no  benefit after 4 weeks, therapy should be discontinued.  Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT)  benefits patients with progressive  COPD who are hypoxic with a  P aO2<  8 kPa (59 mmHg)  and  signs of cor  pulmonale, such as peripheral oedema. These patients have a poor  prognosis and, if left untreated, 5-year survival is  <  50%.    LTOT can also be used for exercise-induced hypoxia and to relieve acute   shortness of breath. Oxygen therapy should always be used in a control- led manner, as some patients’ respiratory drive depends on their degree  of hypoxia (p. 483).   Continuous administration  of oxygen is given at 2 L/min, maintaining   oxygen saturations  >  90% for more than 15 hours a day. A fall in pul- monary artery pressure was achieved if oxygen was given for  >  15  hours, but substantial improvements in mortality were achieved only if  oxygen was administered for 19 hours daily. The following patients should be assessed for oxygen therapy:   those with severe airflow obstruction (FEV1<  30% predicted) or moder-  ate airflow obstruction (30–49% predicted)    cyanotic patients, polycythaemic patients and those with peripheral   oedema, signs of right-sided heart failure, or oxygen saturations  <  92%  when breathing air. Patients fulfil the  criteria for LTOT  when they have:   a  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (55 mmHg) when stable and breathing air; measure-  ments should be taken on two occasions at least 3 weeks apart after  appropriate bronchodilator therapy    a  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa (55–59 mmHg) with polycythaemia, nocturnal hypox-  aemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary hypertension    a carboxyhaemoglobin of  <  3% (i.e. patients who have stopped smoking). Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen are shown in Box 13.2. Patients requiring LTOT will need an oxygen concentrator and educa-  tion regarding its use. They should use the oxygen for at least 15 hours per  day or, if possible, 20 hours per day. Once established, they should be  reviewed at least once a year by a practitioner familiar with LTOT. They  should be warned about the risks of explosion and fire if they continue to  smoke. Short-burst oxygen should be reserved for patients with episodes  of severe breathlessness that is not relieved by other treatment. An  oxygen alert card  stating the oxygen saturation should be given to  all patients who have had hypercapnic respiratory failure.  tors are small and can be used at home. Patients should be considered for   Box 13.2   Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen (Royal College of  Physicians, 1999)  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2<  7.3 kPa   when breathing air during a period of clinical stability  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in   the presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal  hypoxaemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary  hypertension  •  Severe chronic asthma with  P aCO2<  7.3 kPa or persistent   disabling breathlessness  •  Diffuse lung disease with  P aO2<  8 kPa and in patients with   P aO2>  8 kPa with disabling dyspnoea  •  Cystic fibrosis when  P aO2<  7.3 kPa or if  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in the   presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal hypoxaemia,  pulmonary hypertension or peripheral oedema  •  Pulmonary hypertension without parenchymal lung involvement   when  P aO2<  8 kPa  •  Neuromuscular or skeletal disorders, after specialist   assessment  •  Obstructive sleep apnoea despite continuous positive airways   pressure therapy, after specialist assessment  •  Pulmonary malignancy or other terminal disease with disabling   dyspnoea  •  Heart failure with daytime  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (on air) or with   nocturnal hypoxaemia  home NIV if, despite maximal treatment, they have hypercapnic respira- tory failure and have required ventilatory support during an exacerbation,  or are acidotic or hypercapnic on LTOT.  daily.  Oral mucolytic drugs.  Mucolytics increase the expectoration of sputum  by reducing its viscosity. Regular use of mucolytics for at least 2 months  can reduce the number of exacerbations of COPD and days of illness.  They should be used in patients with a chronic productive cough but  only continued if there is continual symptomatic improvement. • Carbocisteine  2.25 g a day in divided doses, then 1.5 g daily in   divided doses.  Erdosteine  300 mg twice daily is also used.  • Mecysteine hydrochloride  200 mg 4 times a day for 2 days, followed   by 200 mg 3 times a day for 6 weeks, then 200 mg twice daily.  Anti-oxidants. N-acetylcysteine  has both anti-oxidant and mucolytic  properties, and has been shown to reduce frequency of exacerbations.  However, it and other anti-oxidants, such as  α -tocopherol and  β -carotene  supplements, are currently not recommended.   Anti-tussives.  Regular use of anti-tussive medication is not recom-  mended in COPD, as there is insufficient evidence for its benefit, and  although cough is a problematic symptom, it has a protective role.    Antibiotics  •  There is no evidence for the use of prophylactic antibiotics. •  Give antibiotics in acute exacerbations, as they shorten exacerbations   and may prevent hospital admission.  •  Give the patient a supply of antibiotics to keep at home, to start when   sputum turns yellow or green.  • Amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily is still effective, although resistance   to  H. influenzae  occurs in 10–20%. Resistance is less frequent to  cefaclor  500 mg 8-hourly or  cefixime  400 mg once daily;  co-amoxiclav is an alternative. Long-term treatment with antibiotics was thought to be of little value  but eradication of infection and keeping the lower respiratory tract free  of bacteria may help prevent deterioration in lung function.    Vaccination/antiviral therapy  • Polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine  usually pro-  vides lifelong immunity after a single dose.  • Annual influenza vaccination  should be given, unless patients have  a hypersensitivity to eggs.  • Antiviral agents  include  zanamivir  inhalation of 10 mg twice daily   for 5 days and  oseltamivir  75 mg 12-hourly for 5 days. They are  recommended for the treatment of ‘at-risk’ adults who can start  therapy within 48 hours of presenting with an influenza-like illness.  For  side-effects , see p. 91.   Antidepressants.  These may be helpful in COPD, as mood disturbances  such as anxiety and depression are common.   Alpha1-protease inhibitor augmentation therapy.  Young patients with  severe hereditary  α1-antitrypsin deficiency with serum levels  <  0.31 g/L  and abnormal lung function are candidates for  α1-antitrypsin replace- ment therapy. There is limited evidence for its benefit in modifying the  disease in the long term.  Physiotherapy.  Physiotherapy is helpful for patients with excessive  sputum. Patients should be encouraged to cough to remove sputum and  taught the active cycle of breathing techniques and how to use positive  expiratory pressure masks.   Nutrition.  Weight loss is common in patients with COPD and there is  an association between low BMI and increased mortality. Patients with  a low BMI should be referred for dietary advice and nutritional supple- ments. Overweight patients should also be offered dietary advice, as  obesity puts additional strain on the cardio-respiratory system.  Pulmonary rehabilitation.  Patients with moderate to severe COPD on  optimal medical treatment should be put on a pulmonary rehabilitation  programme. The aim is to prevent or reverse the deconditioning that  occurs in patients with COPD due to lack of exercise and immobility  caused by symptoms. The rehabilitation programme is provided by a  multi-disciplinary team and includes physical training, disease educa- tion, nutritional advice, and psychological, social and behavioural  intervention.  mortality, and patients must be carefully selected and be receiving optimal  medical management prior to surgery. Bullectomy, lung volume reduction  surgery and lung transplantation are used in severe disease.  symptoms from his or her usual stable state that is beyond normal day-to- day variations, and is acute in onset’. Exacerbations of COPD are among the commonest acute respiratory  problems presenting to primary or secondary care.   They are usually caused by infection, although only 50% of patients will   have a positive sputum culture. The commonest organisms are  H. influ- enzae ,  Strep. pneumoniae  and  Moraxella catarrhalis .    Viruses, including rhinovirus, influenza (including H1N1 swine flu   variant), coronavirus, adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus,  account for up to 30% of cases.    Pollutants may also precipitate an exacerbation.   Some patients with mild exacerbations can be treated at home, but   factors such as acute confusion, a decreased level of consciousness,  significant co-morbidities, severe breathlessness and acidosis require  hospital admission .  CXR  for signs of infection or other pathologies, e.g. pneumothorax or  pulmonary oedema.   Baseline ABGs  on room air (or a known inspired oxygen concentration)  to look for hypoxia or hypercapnia.   Purulent sputum  for culture.  ECG  to look for a cardiac cause for the deterioration.  Blood cultures  if the patient is pyrexial.  Routine bloods  for FBC and U&E.  care includes prophylaxis against deep vein thrombosis, optimizing fluid  status and ensuring adequate nutrition.  Controlled oxygen.  A fixed performance mask can deliver 24%, 28%  and 35% oxygen. It is given to correct hypoxia and maintain oxygen  saturations  >  90%. In a minority of patients respiratory drive is hypoxic  and high oxygen concentrations can result in increasing levels of carbon  dioxide, decreasing consciousness, and respiratory acidosis and arrest.  Pulse oximetry should always be available to measure oxygen satura- tions. An ABG is performed on arrival in hospital to monitor CO2 levels.  Oxygen concentrations should never be reduced in patients who are  hypoxic, even if CO2 levels are high.   Bronchodilators (p. 478).  There is no benefit in delivering bronchodila-  Bronchodilators are, however, given via a  nebulizer  with a face mask  or mouth piece delivering higher doses if patients are too breathless to  coordinate the use of an inhaler/spacer. If the patient is hypercapnic,  the nebulizer should be driven with air and not oxygen. Oxygen can be  given at the same time via nasal cannulae.   Inhaled  β2 short-acting adrenergic agonists (p. 478).  The frequency  and dose of inhaled  β2-agonists can be increased in an acute exacerba- tion. They reach peak activity between 10 and 30 mins, and remain  effective for about 4–6 hours.  Salbutamol  (via inhaler or nebulizer) is  the most commonly used.  Nebulizers  are given at a dose of 2.5–5 mg,  usually 4 times daily, although this can be increased provided side- effects are tolerated. Currently, there is no evidence to support the use  of IV  β2-agonists in acute exacerbations of COPD.   Inhaled short-acting antimuscarinics.  These agents are often used  in  combination with inhaled  β2-agonists  in acute exacerbations of COPD  and are associated with fewer side-effects. They have a less rapid onset  of action but a longer duration of action. They can be delivered via an  inhaler as  ipratropium bromide  20–40 mcg, or via a nebulizer  ipratro- pium bromide  500 mcg,  salbutamol  2.5 mg/2.5 mL vial, 1 vial 4 times  a day.   Systemic corticosteroids.  These drugs reduce the increased airway  inflammation in patients with acute exacerbations of COPD. Short  courses of corticosteroids have been shown to reduce FEV1, improve  hypoxia and shorten duration of hospital stay compared to placebo. All  patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation should receive  a course of  oral corticosteroids  30 mg for 7–14 days, in addition to other  therapies, provided there are no contraindications. The first dose of  corticosteroids can be given intravenously as  hydrocortisone  or  methyl- prednisolone . If patients do receive a prolonged course of corticoster- oids, the dose should be gradually tapered down.   Antibiotics (p. 482).  There is some evidence for a small but significant  benefit with antibiotics in acute exacerbations of COPD, especially in  those with more severe disease .  The use of antibiotics is recommended  in patients with a history of increased purulence or production of  sputum or in those with consolidation on CXR or clinical signs of pneu- monia. Initially, treatment is empirical, with an  aminopenicillin , a  mac- rolide  or a  tetracycline , and then changed when culture results and  sensitivities become available. Antibiotic use should be guided by local  policy. Commonly used antibiotics include  amoxicillin  250–500 mg 3  times daily (15% of  Haemophilus  strains may be resistant),  doxycycline 200 mg then 100 mg daily, or  erythromycin  250–500 mg every 6 hours  or 0.5–1 g every 12 hours.  Ampicillin  can be used instead of  amoxicillin.   Methylxanthines.  The use of methylxanthines such as  theophylline (p. 501) remains controversial, as there is currently no clear evidence of  benefit in acute exacerbations of COPD. IV theophylline should only be  used in patients refractory to nebulized bronchodilators, and levels  should be monitored within 24 hours of treatment and regularly after  this period. Patients already taking oral methylxanthines should con- tinue on this medication during an exacerbation and should  not  receive  additional IV methylxanthines. IV methylxanthines are usually pre- scribed as  aminophylline loading dose  5 mg/kg (250–500 mg) over at  least 20 mins, followed by 0.5 mg/kg/hour over 24 hours adjusted  according to plasma levels. Patients should be closely monitored  throughout.   Respiratory stimulants.  These (e.g.  Doxapram  1.5–4.0 mg/min) are   inappropriate.  Acute exacerbation of COPD  Intercostal drainage  Pneumothorax  CXR  Sit up Stop sedatives Bronchodilators (nebulized or IV) + corticosteroids  Pneumonia  Antibiotics  Yellow/ green sputum  Physiotherapy  Blood gases  P2 < 8 kPa P2 < 7 kPa  P2 < 8 kPa P2 > 7 kPa  Continuous controlled oxygen therapy (Venturi mask 24%)  P2 increased P2 rising  P2 increased P2 steady  Nurses, physiotherapists and relatives encourage deep breathing  P2 rising pH  ≤  7.25–7.35  Venturi mask 28% or 35% O2 to achieve saturtions 88-92%  P2 still rising and/or pH < 7.25  NIV with BiPAP (if no BiPAP give IV doxapram 1.5–4mg/min)  P2steady  P2rising  Continue  Transfer to HDU/ICU for continuation of NIV and possible invasive ventilation  Return to 24% O2 if sats not < 88%   Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) This is the treatment of choice in patients with exacerbations of COPD  who, despite maximal medical therapy and controlled oxygen therapy,  have a persistent respiratory acidosis (pH 7.25–7.35, [H + ] 45–56 nmol/L).  ventilatory support (BiPAP). Continuous positive airway pressure    (CPAP, p. 542) is also used. NIV can avoid the need for endotracheal  intubation.   Patients with pH  <  7.25 respond less well to NIV and should be referred  directly for tracheal intubation or a trial of NIV in an intensive care  setting.    NIV results in a reduced need for endotracheal intubation and thus the   associated complications. There is improved acidaemia, a reduction in  mortality and a shortening of hospital stay. NIV allows better commu- nication, and nutrition and physiotherapy to continue as normal.   Contraindications  to NIV include impaired consciousness, recent facial  or upper airway surgery, facial abnormalities such as burns or trauma,  undrained pneumothorax, hypoxaemia, cardiovascular instability, ina- bility to protect the airway, recent gastrointestinal surgery, vomiting  and copious respiratory secretions.   Endotracheal intubation Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are used in patients  with acidaemia or with persistent or worsening hypoxia despite NIV, and  when NIV is contraindicated.  Mortality  in patients with COPD who are intubated for an exacerbation  is about 20%.    Assessment for suitability for intubation and ventilation includes func-  tional status, requirement for oxygen when stable, BMI, co-morbidities,  previous admissions to the ICU, FEV1 and age. Weaning from a ventila- tor can be difficult and NIV can be used post extubation to shorten  weaning time.   Other therapies Although there is no proven benefit, chest physiotherapy, particularly with  the use of positive expiratory pressure masks, can be helpful in patients  with copious secretions. Currently, there is no evidence showing benefit  for the use of  heliox  (helium and oxygen mixture) in patients with exac- erbations of COPD.  airflow limitation, i.e. a fall in FEV1. A predictive index (BODE  = b ody  mass index, degree of airflow  o bstruction,  d yspnoea and  e xercise capacity)  has recently been modified, improving prediction of outcome, and is  shown in Table 13.2. A patient with a BODE index of 0–2 has a mortality  rate of 10% and with 7–10 it rises to 80% at 4 years. A simpler index using  a ge,  d yspnoea and airflow  o bstruction (ADO) gives a similar prognosis.   Prior to discharge patients should have adequate and stable gas   exchange (oxygen saturations and ABGs) on optimal maintenance bron- chodilator therapy.    They should understand what medication to take, including oxygen   therapy if required.    Spirometry should be measured prior to discharge as a baseline for   further measurements.    A follow-up appointment should be made for 4–6 weeks, especially   for those with respiratory failure who may require assessment for  LTOT.    Ensure that there is adequate support at home.  486  0 points 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 7 points 9 points  Table 13.2   Assignment of points for the updated BODE index  FEV1 (% predicted) ≥  65% ≥  36–64% ≤  35% – – – –  BMI (kg/m2) >  21 ≤  21 – – – – –  Dyspnoea (MRC scale) 0–1 2 3 4 – – –  6-min walk distance (m) ≥  350 – – – ≥  250–349 ≥  150–249 <  150  487    Obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS) affects   1–2% of the population and is commonly seen in overweight, middle- aged men.    It is a syndrome caused by abnormal size and/or collapsibility of the   pharynx during sleep, which disrupts sleep and causes symptoms.    During sleep, activity of the respiratory muscles is reduced and in   OSAHS this results in collapse of the upper airways intermittently and  repeatedly. If there is complete collapse, there is total obstruction of   the airway and no respiratory flow (apnoea); partial collapse may   cause snoring; and if there is critical collapse, there is reduced flow  (hypopnoea).    Apnoea results in hypoxia and increasingly strenuous respiratory   efforts until the patient overcomes the resistance and there is termina- tion of the apnoea and resumption of breathing.    The patient wakes up as a result of the combination of this increased   respiratory effort and central hypoxic stimulation. Patients may wake  up hundreds of times per night, resulting in reduced rapid eye move- ment (REM) sleep and sleep deprivation. Patients are usually unaware  of these night-time awakenings. Factors predisposing to OSAH include increasing age, male gender,  obesity, sedative drugs, smoking and alcohol consumption.  Differential diagnosis. Central sleep apnoea  is due to impairment of  central ventilatory control secondary to brainstem pathology. It occurs  at the onset of sleep and is seen in non-obese patients with no history  of snoring.  SymptomsThese include excessive daytime somnolence (90%), impaired concentra- tion and loud snoring (95%). Patients may fall asleep at work, whilst  driving or in mid-conversation. If patients present with typical symptoms, they should be asked to  complete an  Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) . The maximum score is 24,  normal range is  <  11, mild daytime sleepiness 11–14, moderate subjective  daytime sleepiness 15–18 and severe daytime sleepiness  >  18. Patients and  their partners should fill out the Epworth Sleepiness Scale independently,  as patients often under-estimate the severity of their symptoms because  onset is often gradual and there may be concerns over driving.  and BP. Mandible size should be noted. There should be a full examination  of the nose, oral cavity and upper airways, and a complete respiratory,  cardiovascular and neurological assessment.  and lipid abnormalities, and there is increasing evidence of an association  with increased cerebrovascular events. Patients with OSAHS may decom- pensate with hypercapnic respiratory failure or cor pulmonale, especially  if there is co-existent COPD.  suggestive of OSAHS with sleepiness in dangerous situations, such as  driving or operating hazardous equipment, even if the ESS is normal; and  those with likely OSAHS and COPD should be referred to a specialist sleep  centre.  Sleep studiesThe primary aims of sleep studies are to assess sleep fragmentation, to  establish whether a respiratory problem is responsible and to decide if  upper airway obstruction is the primary cause.  Oximetry  is cheap and widely available. It can be used to measure the  number of oxygen desaturations per hour or the time spent below an  agreed  S pO2 level during the study. Oximetry has a role in initial assess- ment but limited sleep studies or polysomnography are usually required  for diagnosis of OSAHS.   Polysomnography  records sleep and breathing patterns simultane-  ously. Full polysomnography monitors sleep stage, oxygen saturation,  respiratory effort, airflow, thoraco-abdominal movement, snoring, ECG,  body position and limb movements. This is an expensive technique, as  the patient needs to spend the night in a sleep centre and a technician  must be available throughout. Full polysomnography is not necessary  for diagnosis in most cases.   Limited sleep studies  can measure thoraco-abdominal movement, oxi-  metry, flow and heart rate. The limited sleep studies can be performed  at home, although there is reduced sensitivity and specificity, compared  to full polysomnography.  tions and patient compliance. Management should consist firstly of correc- tion of treatable and potentially reversible factors.  Who to treat.  Patients who have a sleep study showing a  >  4% oxygen  saturation dip more than 10 times an hour should be referred for treat- ment. Treatment is also necessary in those with mild OSAHS who are  symptomatic or have complications.  ance of alcohol, sedatives and sleeping tablets. Some patients may benefit  from sleeping on their side. Keeping the nose as clear as possible, with the  use of nasal decongestants if required, may improve symptoms. Treatment of underlying conditions such as hypothyroidism may  greatly improve symptoms of OSAHS. The above measures may alleviate symptoms in patients who snore or  have mild OSAHS. However, in those with more severe disease, additional  treatment, as well as behavioural change, is likely to be required and  should not be delayed.  NIV  CPAP.  This involves wearing a tight-fitting mask during sleep,  which delivers pressure via air tubing from a flow generator in the   region of 5–10 mmHg. The pressure splints open the pharynx and  prevents collapse, allowing unobstructed breathing and an undis- turbed night. Nasal CPAP is currently the treatment of choice. There  are machines available that automatically ‘hunt’ the pressure  required to overcome the collapse of the airway. Supplemental  oxygen can be delivered via the machine if oxygen saturations are  low, such as in COPD patients. Treatment with CPAP improves  symptoms and may improve BP. Once patients are established on  CPAP, they are likely to require it for life. However, compliance is  poor because of the discomfort and noise. Other  side-effects  include  rhinitis, nasal congestion, nasal bridge abrasions, claustrophobia and  abdominal bloating.  • Intra-oral devices.  Mandibular advancement devices may be worn  at night; by holding the lower jaw forward, they increase the space  behind the tongue and thus pharyngeal volume. This improves  airflow. Alternatives include tongue-retaining devices, which hold  the tongue forward. These devices need to be made individually and  are useful in patients with mild OSAHS and for snorers.   Pharmacological treatment  • Supplementary oxygen  may benefit a small subset of patients, espe-  cially those living at altitude.  • Modafinil  200–400 mg daily (100 mg in the elderly) in the morning is   a wake-promoting drug that is a potential adjunctive therapy. There  are, however, ongoing debates regarding its efficacy.  reduce pharyngeal resistance during sleep.  Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty  involves resection of the uvula, redundant  retro-lingual soft tissue and palatine tonsillar tissue if present. The  outcome is difficult to predict and it is not uniformly successful.  Side- effects  include post-operative pain, changes in voice and nasal regurgi- tation of food. In addition, patients are more likely to have difficulty  with CPAP following surgery.   Tonsillectomy  may help patients with large tonsils.  Tracheostomy  is only used in patients with life-threatening apnoea in  whom all other treatments have failed. It works by bypassing the  obstruction. Mandibular advancement, suprahyoid tensing, weight reduction surgery  and nasal surgery have been used but there is insufficient evidence to  recommend these treatments.  with continued driving, even if the diagnosis is clinically suspected but  not yet formally diagnosed. Once a diagnosis is made, patients must be  told verbally and in writing that it is their responsibility to inform the  authorities.  incidence of 1 in 2500 and a calculated carrier frequency of 1 in 25 in the  UK. It is more common in the Caucasian population.   CF is caused by a genetic mutation in the cystic fibrosis gene, which   codes for a protein known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regula- tor (CFTR) protein. The gene is situated on the long arm of chromosome  7 (7q21.3 → 7q22.1).    The commonest mutation in the European population is  δ F508, which  is found in about 70% of affected cases and causes defective synthesis,  defective maturation, blocked activation or defective function of the  CFTR protein.   The CFTR protein is essential for regulation and transport of electrolytes   across the epithelial cell and intracellular membranes. In the presence  of a mutant CFTR protein, chloride channels in the epithelial cells fail  to open in response to elevated cyclic adenosine monophosphate  (cAMP), leading to a decreased excretion of chloride ions and an  increased reabsorption of sodium. As a result, less water is secreted into  the airways, making the secretions more tenacious and viscous, more  difficult to expectorate, and prone to infection. There is a continuous  cycle of infection and inflammation, resulting in severe airway damage,  bronchiectasis and loss of respiratory function.    In the sweat ducts a similar process results in increased concentrations   of sweat sodium and chloride, which is useful for diagnosis. Other  organs involved include the pancreas, liver, biliary tree and gut.  RespiratoryThe commonest presentation is with recurrent respiratory infections. A  cough productive of purulent sputum in childhood eventually results in  bronchiectasis and chronic airway obstruction. Increased breathlessness  occurs as the disease develops. Other pulmonary complications include  haemoptysis, pneumothorax and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Eventually, cor pulmonale and respiratory failure develop. Nasal polyps  and purulent sinusitis occur.  Physical signs  include clubbing, cyanosis,  wheeze and scattered coarse crackles.  Infection  is a major problem. The bacteria are described in the treatment  section. Colonization with  Burkholderia cepacia  is an increasing problem.  It is multi-resistant and is spread by patient-to-patient contact, resulting  in clinic segregation and the end of ‘CF holidays’.    Clinically, one-third of patients have no change in symptoms or lung   function, in one-third there is deterioration of lung function, and in  one-third there is rapid deterioration resulting in death, even in   patients with previous mild disease. The latter is known as ‘cepacia  syndrome’.   Viral infections  also occur.  in malabsorption of fat and protein, and causing steatorrhoea and malnu- trition. Infants and children may present with failure to thrive, diarrhoea  or acute pancreatitis. Bowel obstruction secondary to meconium ileus  (10%) can occur soon after birth; if it occurs later in life, it is known as  ‘meconium ileus equivalent’ or ‘distal intestinal obstructive syndrome’   (DIOS). These patients present with volvulus or rectal prolapse. Biliary  obstruction may result in cholecystitis, while chronic liver disease   and cirrhosis can lead to portal hypertension, varices and splenomegaly.  There is an increased prevalence of gallstones (especially cholesterol),  reflux oesophagitis, peptic ulceration and gastrointestinal malignancy   in CF.  diabetes mellitus in about 11% of adult patients with CF. Diabetic ketoaci- dosis is rare. Male patients are infertile as a result of failure of the   vas deferens and epididymis to develop. Female patients are able to con- ceive but their fertility may be reduced secondary to thickened cervical  mucus.  retardation, demineralization and osteoarthropathy may occur. Patients on  long-term steroids may develop osteoporosis (p. 585).  Positive family history.  Sweat test.  This is the gold standard test for diagnosis of CF and must  be performed in an experienced laboratory. Sweat is collected with  pilocarpine iontophoresis; chloride levels with CF are  >  60 mmol/L. The  test can be repeated the day after receiving fludrocortisone 3 mg/m2 for  2 days, when the sweat electrolyte concentration fails to suppress into  the normal range in CF patients.   Nasal potential difference.  Normal values are  − 10 to  − 30 mV; in CF   they are  − 34 to  − 60 mV. The test is performed in specialist centres.   Genotyping.  The diagnosis can be confirmed if two abnormal mutations  (see above) are found.   Radiology.  A CXR or CT showing enlarged lung volumes and evidence  of bronchiectasis supports a diagnosis of CF.   Pancreatic insufficiency.  This is demonstrated by a low stool elastase,  abnormal pancreatic stimulation tests or fat malabsorption.  talization, enhance quality of life, prevent complications (particularly those  associated with treatment) and improve mortality.  Management.  Management requires a multi-disciplinary team and is  best provided in centres that specialize in CF.   Clinic visits.  Spirometry, blood tests (including vitamins and  Aspergillus precipitins), CXR and a physiotherapy and dietician review should be  carried out.  Respiratory management.  The aim of respiratory therapy is to decrease  the number and pathogenicity of the infecting organism and suppress  the lung’s hyper-responsive immune system. This can be achieved with  antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, bronchodilators and airway clear- ance techniques. There is no good clinical evidence for the use of  oxygen . In hypoxic patients, oxygen may delay or prevent the complica- tions of chronic hypoxia, as it does in COPD. Oxygen may also be used  during exercise.   guide antibiotic therapy. There  is no overall consensus on the use of prophylactic antibiotics and duration  of treatment.  Acute respiratory exacerbations.  IV antibiotics may be required if  there is bacterial resistance to all orally administered antibiotics and if  oral antibiotics fail to resolve symptoms. FEV1 and CRP can be used to  monitor response to therapy. • Staph. aureus.  Antibiotics (p. 77) such as continuous twice-daily oral  flucloxacillin  are usually prescribed if there is evidence of chronic  colonization. Continuous prophylactic antibiotics are used in patients  with frequent recurrent exacerbations. Despite prophylaxis, isolates  of  Staph. aureus  require high-dose  flucloxacillin  and an additional  antibiotic such as  sodium fusidate ,  azithromycin/erythromycin ,  clindamycin  or  rifampicin . Patients with severe exacerbations  should receive a second-generation  cephalosporin , an  aminoglyco- side  or  vancomycin  for at least 10–14 days.  • H. influenzae.  All isolates should be regarded as pathogenic. A  2-week course of a  macrolide  or  ampicillin  should usually treat  H .  influenzae , although resistance is common. Persistent infection can be  treated with  cefuroxime ,  cefotaxime  or  ceftazidime , which should  be continued until there is a sustained improvement in symptoms.  Patients with repeated isolates despite the above measures should  receive continuous oral antibiotics chosen according to sensitivities.  • Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  Once isolates are identified, aggressive  treatment must be initiated to delay chronic colonization. Strategies  for the  first isolation  of  P. aeruginosa  include: a)  oral ciprofloxacin  750 mg twice daily plus  nebulized colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily or  tobramycin / gentamicin  for 3 weeks; a  2-week course of IV antipseudomonal antibiotics is given, delay- ing the introduction of continuous antibiotic inhalation until sub- sequent positive cultures  or  b) combined use of  nebulized colomycin  plus  gentamicin  or  tobramycin , followed by intensive oral or IV antibiotic therapy.  The exact duration of therapy is controversial. Many prescribe a  3-month course. Management of  chronic infection  varies and includes a regular IV  antibiotic, irrespective of clinical state. Antimicrobial sensitivities  should be checked regularly for appropriate therapy. a) A  β -lactam  in combination with an  aminoglycoside  is recom-  mended as first-line in patients colonized with  P. aeruginosa .  Treatments should be given for 10–14 days but may need to be  continued for longer if the patient has persistent symptoms.  b)  Combination therapy  reduces antibiotic resistance and can  produce synergistic effects.  c)  Oral ciprofloxacin  can be used to treat mild exacerbation but is  not sufficient as monotherapy if there is concomitant  Staph. aureus infection.  Nebulized antipseudomonal antibiotic treatment , such as  tobramycin  300 mg nebulized 12-hourly for 28 days, alternating  with 28 days off, decreases  P .  aeruginosa  colonization. Many patients receive IV antibiotics at home, although a test dose  is usually given in hospital first.  Colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily   can cause bronchoconstriction, so a test dose should always be  given.   Long-term management. Azithromycin  500 mg orally results in   improved lung function and reduced exacerbations in patients   colonized with  P. aeruginosa . It has immunomodulatory and anti- inflammatory actions.  thickening due to inflammation and airway destruction. In addition, bron- chial hyper-reactivity is common. An improvement in FEV1 can be seen in  response to  β2 agonists such as  salbutamol  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily. Beta2agonists are also helpful prior to physiotherapy to facilitate clearance of  airway secretions. Long-acting  β2 agonists should be reserved for patients  who show clear benefit. Antimuscarinics, such as  inhaled ipratropium  bromide  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily, can also be used.  Corticosteroids.  Corticosteroids, e.g.  prednisolone  20 mg daily, can be   helpful in patients with recurrent wheeze. Alternate-day prednisolone  at a dose of 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg improves lung function over 24  months.  Side-effects  (p. 585) are many, so oral corticosteroids are not  recommended for routine use. They are useful in patients with allergic  bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (a common complication of CF) or  resistant bronchospasm and in patients who are profoundly ill and not  responding to maximal therapy. Osteopenia (p. 324) prophylaxis is  given.  Recombinant DNase.  DNase can be used to decrease sputum viscosity  by cleaving long strands of DNA into smaller ones. The usual dose is  dornase alfa  2500 U (2.5 mg) once daily via a jet nebulizer. The most  common  side-effect  is voice alteration; others include pharyngitis, lar- yngitis, conjunctivitis and chest pain.   Hypertonic saline.  Short-term studies have shown benefit from inhaled  hypertonic saline in concentrations of up to 7%. Beta2 agonists should  be inhaled prior to administration to limit bronchospasm.   N-acetylcysteine.  Although this can reduce sputum viscosity, there are  no RCTs that show benefit from its use.   NIV.  This may be used to improve symptoms in chronic respiratory  failure or as a bridge to lung transplantation. There is no evidence of a  survival benefit.   Lung transplantation.  In CF FEV1 can be used as a predictor of mortal-  ity. Once FEV1 is  <  30% predicted, mean survival is about 2 years and  patients should be referred to a specialized unit for assessment for lung  transplantation.  Haemoptysis,  which is usually mild, is common during exacerbations  but massive haemoptysis also occurs (see Box 13.1).  Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis  does not seem to affect  the clinical course of most patients without an allergic component. A  four-fold rise in total serum IgE, associated with IgG precipitins to  Aspergillus  and large fleeting changes on the CXR, favour allergic   bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Treatment  is with  corticosteroids .  The role of  itraconazole  remains controversial; however, some trans- plant centres recommend its use for the suppression of  Aspergillus  prior  to transplantation.   Pneumothorax  should be treated in the conventional way (p. 529).  Pleural stripping procedures to prevent recurrence may be a contrain- dication to subsequent lung transplantation.  Gastrointestinal disease Pancreatic enzyme supplements.  Pancreatic enzyme supplements  (enteric-coated microspheres and mini-tablets) contain lipase, protease  and amylase, and are taken with meals and snacks. Most adults take  4–8 tablets with main meals and 2–4 tablets with snacks; however, they  learn to adjust the dosage to achieve normal stools.  Pancreatin  is  available in a number of different strengths depending on the amount  of lipase in the preparation (e.g. 10 000, 25 000 and 40 000 units). Large- bowel strictures have been associated with these high-strength prepara- tions. Increasing the jejunal pH with a protein pump inhibitor or an H2antagonist can improve absorption.   Nutrition.  Patients should eat a normal healthy diet with a high calorie  intake. If they are unable to maintain an adequate weight, overnight  enteral feeding via a gastrostomy or naso-gastric tube can be used. Good  nutritional status (multi-vitamin preparation daily) is associated with  an improved prognosis and dietitians should be involved.  Vitamin  supplementation  is given with  fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K 10 mg daily. Iron-deficient patients should receive iron.   Distal intestinal obstruction (DIOS).  DIOS can be treated with a naso- gastric tube for decompression, IV fluids, correction of electrolytes, and  a combination of enemas and laxatives. Mineral oil and fleet enemas  may be used initially, as may oral laxatives such as  senna  and  lactulose .  In severe cases,  gastrograffin  or  N-acetylcysteine  is given orally or  naso-gastrically and as an enema. Surgery is sometimes required. As  DIOS is a recurring condition, the patient is given regular pancreatic  supplements and regular laxatives once symptoms are relieved.  Ursodeoxycholic acid  leads to clinical and biochemical improvement  but does not modify the course of chronic liver disease.   Gallstones  may require a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However,  anaesthesia is not without risk due to lung disease.  Diabetes.  Over 65% of patients have glucose intolerance by the age of  25. A blood glucose test should be performed 3-monthly. CF patients  with diabetes are encouraged to eat a high-calorie diet to maintain  growth and weight; insulin should be adjusted accordingly.   Fertility  Women.  Fertility is usually normal and the oral contraceptive pill  works in normal doses. For pregnancy, ideally the FEV1 should be  >  50% predicted and patients with an FEV1<  30% should be advised  against pregnancy. Partners should undergo DNA analysis prior to  conception. Teratogenic drugs should be avoided. Quinolones,  aminoglycosides and DNase should also be avoided.  • Men.  Male patients (98%) are infertile. They should receive seminal  analysis and their partner should have DNA analysis. In vitro ferti- lization using aspiration of sperm and intracytoplasmic gamete injec- tion can be successful.  Physiotherapy and airway clearance techniques.  Physiotherapy  should be performed at least twice a day and increased during exacerba- tions. A number of techniques and devices are employed including  postural drainage with percussion, active cycle of breathing techniques  and ‘huffing’. Mechanical devices are also used, such as flutter valves,  external oscillation thoracic jackets, and low-and high-pressure positive  expiratory pressure devices. Exercise should be used in combination  with physiotherapy, as it can help mobilize secretions and is part of  patients’ pulmonary rehabilitation.   Other therapies  • Sodium chloride tablets.  These may be required in hot weather due  to excess sodium chloride loss in sweat.  • Gene therapy.  This is currently unavailable, mainly due to problems  with vectors and delivery, but may be a treatment of the future.  • Vaccinations.  Patients should receive  pneumococcal polysaccharide  vaccine  0.5 mL IM and a yearly influenza vaccination.  However, the life expectancy of a newborn baby with CF today is about  45–50 years old without gene therapy.  Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways. It has three  characteristics: airway hyper-responsiveness to a wide range of stimuli,  reversible airflow limitation and inflammation of the bronchi. It is more  common in developed countries and the prevalence is increasing, particu- larly in the second decade of life when the disease affects 10–15% of the  population.  predisposition and environmental factors.  Extrinsic asthma  usually occurs  in atopic individuals and is associated with a positive skin prick reaction  to common inhalant allergens.  Late-onset asthma  in adults can be due to  sensitization to chemicals or biological products at work, aspirin intoler- ance or stimulation following  β -adrenoceptor blockers prescribed for  hypertension or angina.  Intrinsic asthma  is often described as ‘late-onset’,  as it usually starts in middle age. However, many patients developing  late-onset asthma have a positive skin prick test and on close questioning  actually had childhood symptoms compatible with asthma.  toms are intermittent, variable, worse at night and provoked by triggers  such as exercise. Cough variant asthma is cough without a wheeze. There   is often a family history of asthma or other atopic disease, such as eczema  or hay fever, and patients often know triggers that worsen symptoms.  nation. If wheeze is not present, the patient is asked to do a forced expira- tory manœuvre, which may provoke an audible wheeze. During an  exacerbation there may be tachypnoea, use of accessory muscles, wheeze  and pulsus paradoxus, but in a severe exacerbation the chest may be silent  (i.e. no airflow). Eczema, hives or allergic rhinitis may be present, indicat- ing other allergic disease. Nasal polyps may be found with or without an  associated history of aspirin sensitivity. Churg–Strauss syndrome  is a triad of asthma (with rhinitis), eosi-  nophilia and systemic vasculitis.  Respiratory function tests  can be normal (if there is no airflow limita-  tion) or show an obstructive airflow picture. There is a reduced FEV1and a proportionally smaller reduction in FVC, resulting in an FEV1:FVC  ratio of  <  75%. The PEFR is also reduced, but variability of PEFR and/ or FEV1 over time is diagnostic of asthma. •  PEFR meters are inexpensive and easy to use, and patients can there-  fore be taught to use them at home. Measurements of PEFR on waking  (prior to taking a bronchodilator) and before bed (after a bronchodila- tor) are useful in showing diurnal variation (see Fig. 13.2). An increase  of 20% in PEFR after inhalation of a short-acting  β -agonist, e.g.  400 mcg of  salbutamol  via a metered dose inhaler or after a trial or  oral steroids ( prednisolone  30 mg/day for 14 days), occurs in asthma.  Patients with severe chronic asthma may have little reversibility.  •  Patients should be encouraged to keep PEFR diaries. Those with   possible occupational asthma should record PEFR for at least 2 weeks  at work and 2 weeks off work.  • Exercise tests  show a reduction in PEF or FEV1 after 6 mins exercise.   Histamine or methacholine bronchial provocation tests  can be used  to indicate the presence of bronchial hyper-responsiveness.   Blood and sputum tests  may reveal increased eosinophils ( >  0.4  × 109/L) and total IgE in the peripheral blood, indicating an allergic ten- dency. Eosinophils may also be elevated in the sputum. Radioaller- gosorbent tests (RAST) measure minute quantities of IgE antibody in  the blood, which are specifically directed at particular antigens.  However, they are expensive and less sensitive than skin prick tests.   CXR  shows no characteristic features. It is done at diagnosis and always  in a severe exacerbation to exclude a pneumothorax.   Skin prick tests  should be performed in all cases to try to identify an  allergic cause. Allergen provocation tests are useful if occupational  asthma is suspected.   Exhaled nitric oxide measurement  indicates the degree of inflamma-  tion and is used as a test for the efficacy of corticosteroids.  and restoration of normal or best possible lung function with minimal  side-effects from medication, minimal absences from work or school, and   no limitation on physical activity. In children treatment is to enable a  normal growth pattern to occur.  Patient educationPatients and their families should be given information about the condi- tion. Clinicians should regularly check their patients’ inhaler technique  and should teach patients to use a PEFR metre. Patients should learn to  recognize signs of poor control, such as increasing need for short-acting  β -agonists, increasing breathlessness on exertion and waking at night with  symptoms.Primary prophylaxisThere are currently no recommendations on pre-natal or post-natal   allergen avoidance . Breast feeding should be encouraged, as there is  an association with reduced infant wheeze. Microbial exposure — the  ‘hygiene hypothesis’ — suggests that early exposure to microbial products  may prevent allergic disease such as asthma by switching off allergic  responses. There is currently no good evidence for this. Smoking during  pregnancy and after the child is born is associated with increased infant  wheeze.Secondary prophylaxis Allergen avoidance.  Measures should be taken to avoid causative aller-  gens, such as pets, mould and certain foods, as this may be helpful in  reducing the severity of disease. Measures to avoid house dust mites  have been shown to be ineffectual. In observational studies asthma  symptoms have improved after removal of a pet from the house.  Aspirin, other NSAIDs and  β -blockers should not be used.   Smoking.  Active and passive smoking should be avoided.  Weight reduction.  This is recommended in overweight asthma patients  to improve symptoms.   The mainstay of treatment for asthma involves the use of inhaled thera-  pies that are delivered as aerosols or powders directly into the lung;  thus first-pass metabolism is avoided and unwanted systemic effects are  minimized.    Asthma treatment involves a stepwise approach, enabling patients and   doctors to increase or decrease medication according to symptoms  (Table 13.4). This approach is based on the appreciation that asthma is  an inflammatory disease and that anti-inflammatory drugs should be  started, even in mild cases. Short-acting bronchodilator therapy should  be used to relieve breakthrough symptoms only. Increasing use of short- acting therapy implies deteriorating uncontrolled disease and the need  to step up therapy. Treatment is stepped down if control is good.  β2 agonist, such as a salbutamol inhaler 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs), as  required. Beta2 agonists should only be used for breakthrough symptoms  and are a useful guide to changes in severity of asthma. If a patient is using  two or more canisters of a  β2 agonist a month ( >  10–12 puffs a day), this  suggests poorly controlled disease. Beta2 agonists are very effective for  symptom relief but have no effect on underlying disease.  Table 13.3   Drugs used in asthma*  Drug Regimen  Inhaled drugs  Inhaled short-acting  β2 agonists  100 mcg per puff (metered dose) Take 2 puffs as required  Salbutamol (called albuterol  in USA) Aerosol and powder  preparations available  500 mcg per puff Up to 4 times daily as required  Terbutaline Powder and nebulized  solutions available  Inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist  12 mcg twice daily Up to 24 mcg twice daily  Formoterol Powder and aerosol  formulations available  Salmeterol 50 mcg (2 puffs or 1 blister) twice daily Up to 100 mcg (4 puffs or 2 blisters)  twice daily  Inhaled corticosteroids  Beclometasone dipropionate Dry (in blisters) and aerosol  preparations  50, 100 or 200 mcg per metered dose 100–400 mcg twice daily, rising to  0.4–1 mg twice daily  100, 200, 400 mcg per metered dose 100–800 mcg twice daily  Budesonide Powder or aerosol  preparations  Fluticasone propionate 50 mcg metered dose (powder) and  125 mcg (aerosol) 100–500 mcg twice daily  Mometasone furoate 200–400 mcg (powder) as a single dose  in evening or in 2 divided doses  Compound inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist and inhaled corticosteroids  Budesonide and formoterol  100/6 combination 1–2 puffs, up to 4 puffs daily  (combinations in higher concentrations  available 200/6 and 400/12)  Fluticasone and salmeterol  100, 250 or 500 mcg 50 mcg 1–2 puffs twice daily  Other inhaled preventer therapy  Antimuscarinic  bronchodilators Ipratropium bromide Tiotropium  (Aerosol 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily) (Nebulized solutions 250–500 mcg 3–4  times daily) 18 mcg (powder) once daily 2.5 mcg (solution) 2 puffs once daily  Sodium cromoglicate 10 mg (2 puffs) 4–8 times daily  Nedocromil sodium 2 puffs (4 mg) 2–4 times daily  499  Table 13.3  Continued  Drug Regimen  Oral agents  Leukotriene modifiers  Montelukast 10 mg once daily (evening)  Zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily  Theophylline  Theophylline modified  release  200–400 mg every 12 hours (tablets) 250–500 every 12 hours (capsules)  Aminophylline 225 mg (tablets) twice daily, rising to  450 mg twice daily if necessary  Corticosteroids  Prednisolone 5 mg tablets 30–60 mg daily for acute asthma attack  β2 agonists  Salbutamol 2–4 mg 3–4 times daily  Terbutaline 2.5 mg 3 times daily  Specialist centres only  Steroid-sparing agents,   e.g. methotrexate,  ciclosporin  Ipratropium bromide , an antimuscarinic bronchodilator, is used for   short-term relief in chronic asthma 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily by inhaler.  β2agonist more than 3 times a week, if they have nocturnal symptoms more  than once a week, or if they have had an exacerbation in the last 2 years  requiring systemic corticosteroids or nebulized bronchodilators.  Inhaled corticosteroids  are the most effective preventers. The usual  starting dose for  beclometasone dipropionate  is 100–400 mcg twice  daily. The dose should be titrated to the lowest possible that controls  symptoms. When changing between  beclometasone dipropionate  and  budesonide , a 1 : 1 ratio should be assumed.  Fluticasone  100–500 mcg  twice daily,  mometasone  200–400 mcg as a single dose and  ciclesonide 80–320 mcg daily as a single dose are also available. Inhaled steroids  are the first-line preventer therapy.   Sodium cromoglicate and nedocromil sodium  prevent activation of  many inflammatory cells, especially mast cells, eosinophils and epithe- lial cells. It is difficult to predict who will benefit from them, but they  are less effective ‘preventers’ than inhaled corticosteroids.  Sodium cro- moglicate  is given by aerosol inhalation 10 mg (2 puffs) 4 times a day,  increased to 6–8 times a day in severe cases. The dose of  nedocromil  sodium  is 4 mg (2 puffs) daily.  Leukotriene receptor antagonists  inhibit the cysteinyl L1 receptor,  one of the principal asthma mediators. They may be beneficial in   Table 13.4   The stepwise management of asthma  Step PEFR Treatment  1  Occasional   100%  predicted As-required short-acting  β2agonists If used more than once daily, move to  step 2  symptoms,  less frequent  than daily  2  Daily   symptoms ≤  80%  predicted Regular inhaled preventer therapy Anti-inflammatory drugs: inhaled  low-dose corticosteroids up to  800 mcg daily. LTRAs, theophylline  and sodium cromoglicate are less  effective If not controlled, move to step 3  3  Severe   symptoms  50–80%  predicted Inhaled corticosteroids and  long-acting inhaled  β2 agonist Continue inhaled corticosteroid Add regular inhaled LABA If still not controlled, add either LTRA,  modified-release oral theophylline or  β2 agonist If not controlled, move to step 4  4  Severe   symptoms  uncontrolled  with high-dose  inhaled  corticosteroids  50–80%  predicted High-dose inhaled corticosteroid  and regular bronchodilators Increase high-dose inhaled  corticosteroids up to 2000 mcg daily Plus regular LABAs Plus either LTRA or modified-release  theophylline or  β2 agonist  5  Severe   symptoms  deteriorating  ≤  50%  predicted Regular oral corticosteroids Add prednisolone 40 mg daily to   step 4  6  Severe   Hospital admission  ≤  30%  predicted  symptoms  deteriorating  in spite of  prednisolone  particularly if used in addition to an inhaled corticosteroid.  Montelu- kast  10 mg daily in the evening and  zafirlukast  20 mg twice daily are  the most common leukotriene receptor antagonists used.  Theophylline  is a bronchodilator and sustained-release preparations  are used in combination with inhaled corticosteroids in some cases   of asthma. Modified release theophyllines include  Slo-Phyllin 250–500 mg,  Nuelin SA  250–500 mg and  Uniphyllin Continus  200– 400 mg, all 12-hourly. Brand names must be stated on prescription.   Theophyllines have a narrow therapeutic window and interact with a  number of other drugs. Plasma levels should be between 10 and  20 mg/L for optimal response.  good compliance, a trial of add-on therapy is used, instead of increasing  inhaled corticosteroid dose. The add-on therapy of choice is a long-acting  β2-agonist (LABA); when used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids, these  agents have been shown to improve lung function and symptoms in symp- tomatic patients taking low- and moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroids.  Choices include  salmeterol  50 mcg (2 puffs) twice daily, increased up to  100 mcg (4 puffs) twice daily in severe disease, or  formoterol  12 mcg 1–2  times daily, increased to 24 mcg daily in more severe disease. If there is  an improvement but there are still symptoms, the LABA should be con- tinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to 800 mcg a day.  LABAs and inhaled corticosteroids can be given as  combination therapy ,  which is more convenient for the patient. A combination of  fluticasone  and  salmeterol  and a combination of  budesonide  and  formoterol  are available.  If there is no improvement in symptoms after addition of a LABA, it   should be discontinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to  800 mcg daily. If control is still inadequate, one of the following is added:  leukotriene receptor antagonists ,  modified-release oral theophylline  or  modified-release oral  β2 agonist .  β2 agonist as required, moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroid 800 mcg  daily and add-on therapy (usually a LABA), one of the following can   be used:   Increase inhaled corticosteroids to 2000 mcg a day (monitor for   side-effects).    Do a 6-week sequential trial of one of the following: leukotriene receptor   antagonist, modified-release oral theophylline or modified-release oral  β2 agonist.    If the trial is ineffective, stop the medication; if inhaled corticosteroid is   used, reduce to the original dose.   is the oral corticosteroid of choice and should be used at the  lowest dose that controls symptoms. Patients taking long-term steroids or  3–4 courses a year are at increased risk of side-effects (p. 324). Patients  receiving steroids for more than 3 months should be prescribed a long- acting  bisphosphonate  to prevent osteoporosis. BP and blood glucose  should be checked regularly. Methods of trying to decrease oral steroids  include maximizing other therapy and using maximal doses of inhaled  corticosteroids. Immunosuppressants (steroid-sparing agents), such as  methotrexate ,  ciclosporin  or  oral gold , can be tried for 3 months.  their therapy. This should be done slowly and, where possible, the patient  should be maintained on the lowest dose of inhaled steroid that controls  symptoms. Reduction should be considered every 3 months and the  steroid dose should be reduced by 25–50% each time.  omalizumab ) that form  complexes with free IgE, blocking its interaction with mast cells and  basophils, have been developed. However, although clinical trials have  shown benefit in patients with severe asthma despite corticosteroids, oma- lizumab is not regularly prescribed. Omalizumab is given subcutaneously  2–4 times weekly.  recognition and prevention. Patients should have an action plan and know  how to identify the onset of an exacerbation. The signs of an onset include  worsening PEFR, increasing symptoms or greater use of inhaled short- acting  β2 agonists. Patients should, at this stage, avoid precipitating factors,  use inhaled  β2 agonists for symptom relief and start on a course of oral  corticosteroids. If there is no improvement or they are getting worse, they  should immediately seek medical help.  tightness or cough. Those at increased risk of severe acute exacerbations  of asthma can be identified in the history. Previous near-fatal asthma  attacks requiring ICU admission, previous hospital admissions within the  last year, previous attacks requiring corticosteroids, a need for three or  more classes of drug for asthma, increased use of  β2 agonists (more than 2  canisters a month), known brittle asthma and repeated A&E attendance  within the last year indicate patients who are at risk. Patients who are  non-compliant with treatment, fail to attend hospital appointments,  usually self-discharge from hospital or have any psychological or behav- ioural illness are also at risk of developing severe exacerbations of asthma.  Moderate asthma exacerbation  involves:  •  PEFR 50–75% predicted •  increasing symptoms •  no signs of acute severe or life-threatening asthma.   Acute severe asthma  typically involves one of:  •  PEF 33–50% predicted or best •  inability to complete a sentence in one breath •  respiratory rate  >  25 breaths/min •  tachycardia  >  110 bpm.   Life-threatening asthma  has features including:  •  PEF  <  33% predicted or best •  a silent chest •  cyanosis •  feeble respiratory effort •  exhaustion, confusion or coma •  bradycardia or hypotension •  normal  P aCO2 (4.6–6 kPa) • S pO2<  92% or  P aO2<  8 kPa.  CXR  should be performed to exclude a pneumothorax or consolidation.  PEFR  is used to stratify patients according to disease severity (see  above), and to inform decisions as to intensity of treatment and whether   patients should be treated in hospital or at home. Measurements should  be repeated regularly to gauge response to therapy. Normal values vary  according to size and age but a peak flow  <  200 usually indicates severe  airflow obstruction. Often patients with exacerbations are too breathless  to perform a PEFR.   ABGs  should be measured in patients requiring hospital admission who  have oxygen saturations  <  92% or features of acute severe or life- threatening asthma. A normal  P aCO2 is a sign of life-threatening asthma  and impending respiratory failure, possibly requiring endotracheal  intubation and mechanical ventilation.   Pulse oximetry  should be used to monitor oxygen saturations through-  out admission.   Assess the patient. Tachycardia, a high respiratory rate and an inability   to speak in sentences indicate a severe attack.    Apply  high-flow oxygen  (usually 40–60%), to maintain saturation  >  92%.   If PEFR is  <  150 L/min (in adults), administer  nebulized salbutamol  5 mg or  terbutaline  10 mg — driven via oxygen. (Use a low-reading  meter, as ordinary meters measure from 60 L/min upwards.)    Give 200 mg  IV hydrocortisone  or  prednisolone  40–50 mg orally. In severe asthma not responding to the initial nebulizer :   Repeat the  salbutamol  or  terbutaline nebulizer  at 15–30 min intervals   or give continuous nebulization of  salbutamol  at 5–10 mg/hour (a  special nebulizer is required).    Add nebulized  ipratropium bromide  0.5 mg 4–6-hourly to the neb-  ulized  salbutamol / terbutaline .    Measure ABGs; if  P aCO2 is  >  7 kPa, consider ventilation. If  P aCO2 is  normal, monitor closely, as mechanical ventilation may be required.    Take a CXR to exclude pneumothorax.   If there is no improvement,  magnesium sulphate  IV 1.2–2 g over   20 mins,  salbutamol  IV 3–20 mcg/min,  terbutaline  IV 1.5–5 mcg/min  or  aminophylline  loading dose (if not on maintenance oral therapy)  5 mg/kg over 20 mins, followed by a maintenance dose of 0.5 mg/kg/ hour can be used.   Corticosteroids.  Steroid therapy is given to reverse the underlying  airway inflammation. It is associated with an improved outcome in  exacerbations of asthma and should be given as early as possible (Fig.  13.2).  IV steroids (hydrocortisone  400 mg daily in 4 divided doses) are  usually given. Oral steroids (prednisolone 40–50 mg daily) are as effec- tive, provided the patient is able to swallow. Oral steroids should be  continued until resolution of acute symptoms and a return to usual  daily activities, and until a PEFR within 80% of the patient’s best or  predicted has been obtained. They do not need to be tapered if the  course is shorter than 3 weeks, provided patients are on an appropriate  dose of inhaled corticosteroids.   Antibiotics.  There is no evidence that antibiotics are beneficial, as exac-  erbations are usually caused by viruses. Antibiotics should be reserved  for cases where bacteria are cultured from the sputum or blood, or there  is consolidation on CXR.  IV fluids and correction of electrolytes.  Many patients are dehydrated  and require fluid replacement. They may develop hypokalaemia due to  β2 agonists and this should be corrected.  30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30  500  400  300  PEFR (L/min)  200  100  MNE MNE  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13  Day  Helium oxygen mixtures.  These can be useful in exacerbations of  asthma although evidence is lacking.   Intensive care.  Patients should be referred to ICU for possible endotra-  cheal intubation and mechanical ventilation if they are not responding  to treatment, i.e. there is persistent hypoxia, hypercapnia, confusion,  drowsiness, deteriorating PEFR, increasing acidosis or respiratory  arrest. NIV is not usually used in patients with severe exacerbations of  asthma and should only be in an HDU/ICU setting.  and may not require hospital admission. Their regular treatment should  be increased and they should commence a 2-week course of oral pred- nisolone. If they are safe to discharge, follow-up must be arranged. Hospitalized patients should be established on a drug regimen that they  can safely take at home, and have a PEFR  >  75% best or predicted and a  diurnal variation of  <  25% prior to discharge. Follow-up by a respiratory  physician should be arranged.  suddenly develop severe asthma attacks and are at risk of sudden death.  These patients require a detailed management plan for an exacerbation.  On developing a wheeze they should go immediately to the nearest hos- pital and may require admission straight to ICU. Oxygen, resuscitation  equipment, prednisolone 60 mg and nebulized  β2 agonists should be kept  at home and at work. Patients should wear a MedicAlert bracelet and carry  two self-injectable 0.3 mg  adrenaline (epinephrine)  syringes with them at  all times.  classified by site (e.g. lobar, diffuse, bronchopneumonia) or by aetiological  agent (e.g. bacterial, viral, fungal, aspiration, or due to radiotherapy or   allergic mechanisms). Pneumonias can be community-acquired (CAP;  commonest  Strep. pneumoniae ), hospital-acquired (often Gram-negative  bacteria) or ventilator-associated (p. 548).  parainfluenza viruses. Precipitating factors include cigarette smoking,  alcohol excess, bronchiectasis, bronchial obstruction (e.g. carcinoma) or  inhalation from oesophageal obstruction. IV drug users can contract a  Staph. aureus  infection and patients who are immunosuppressed (e.g. those  having AIDS or receiving treatment with cytotoxic agents) develop pneu- monia; the organisms include  Pneumocystis jiroveci ,  Mycobacterium avium  intracellulare  and cytomegalovirus.  cillin (see Fig. 13.4) but they should be reviewed at 48 hours. If the   mild case has not improved or CAP is very severe, the patient should   be admitted to hospital. There is a significant mortality, particularly in  those over 65 years old. Overall mortality for those admitted to hospital is  about 5%. Strep. pneumoniae  accounts for the majority of cases and for two-thirds  of the mortality.  state of the patient. Following a radiological (Fig. 13.3) and microbiological (if possible)  diagnosis of the pneumonia, an early assessment of the severity of the  pneumonia must be made in order to admit the patient to a medical ward  or to ICU. The CURB-65 (Box 13.3) is a useful guide for doing this. Referral to ICU  will be necessary if there is a failure to respond with a  CURB-65 score of over 3 or if there is progressive hypercapnia, persistent  hypoxia, severe acidosis, shock and depression of consciousness.   should have the following:  CXR.  Repeat the CXR 6 weeks after discharge unless complications  occur. • Strep. pneumoniae.  Consolidation can lag behind clinical signs. • Mycoplasma.  Usually one lobe is involved but infection can be  bilateral.  • Legionella .  There is lobar and then multi-lobar shadowing, with the  occasional small pleural effusion. Cavitation is rare.   Blood tests.  FBC, U&E, LFTs and CRP.  • Strep. pneumoniae .  White cell count is  >  15  ×  109/L (90% polymor-  phonuclear leucocytosis); ESR  >  100 mm/hour; CRP  >  100 mg/L.  • Mycoplasma .  White cell count is usually normal. • Legionella .  There is lymphopenia without marked leucocytosis,  hyponatraemia, hypoalbuminaemia and high serum levels of liver  aminotransferases.    Other tests   Sputum culture. •  Blood culture. •  Pulse oximetry and ABG analysis.  Table 13.5   Clinical features of community-acquired pneumonia  Pneumonia Clinical features  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  Patient is ill with a high temperature (39.5°C). Dry  cough becomes productive, with rusty-coloured  sputum after 1–2 days. Labial herpes simplex.  Breathlessness. Pleuritic pain. Crackle and wheezes  with signs of consolidation and pleural rub. CXR is  shown in Fig. 13.3  Mycoplasma  pneumoniae  Common in young. Cycles of 3–4 years. Headaches  and malaise often precede chest symptoms by 1–5  days. Rare extrapulmonary complications include  myocarditis, pericarditis, erythema multiforme,  haemolytic anaemia, meningoencephalitis. Recovery  usually in 10–14 days. Can be protracted, with  cough and X-ray changes lasting for weeks; relapses  occur. Lung abscesses and pleural effusions rare  Legionella  pneumophila  Sporadic or in outbreaks in e.g. hotels or foreign  travel, or in immunocompromised. Middle to old  age. Males  >  females 2 : 1. Incubation period 2–10  days. Malaise, myalgia, headache, fever (up to  40°C), rigors. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea,  abdominal pain. Can be acutely ill with mental  confusion and other neurological signs. Haematuria,  occasional renal failure and deranged liver function  tests. Breathlessness with initially dry cough, which  can become productive and purulent. CXR slow to  resolve  Viral  pneumonias  Uncommon in adults — influenza A virus or  adenovirus infection is commonest cause. May  predispose patients to bacterial pneumonia Cytomegalovirus pneumonia is seen in  immunocompromised patients (p. 3) Influenza A (H5N1) (p. 50) Management is as for ARDS (p. 549)  Other pneumonias  Haemophilus  influenzae  Frequent cause of exacerbation of chronic bronchitis  and can cause pneumonia in COPD patients.  Pneumonia is diffuse or confined to one lobe. No  special features to separate it from other bacterial  pneumonias  Staphylococcus  aureus  Rarely causes pneumonia, except after preceding  influenzal viral illness. Patients are very ill. Patchy  consolidation in one or more lobes, which break  down to form abscesses. Pneumothorax, effusion  and empyemas are frequent. Septicaemia develops  with metastatic abscesses in other organs  507  Table 13.5  Continued  Pneumonia Clinical features  Staphylococcal  septicaemia  Areas of pneumonia (septic infarcts) frequently seen  in IV drug users, and in patients with central  catheters being used for parenteral nutrition.  Infected puncture site is source of staphylococcus.  Pulmonary symptoms often few but breathlessness  and cough occur and CXR reveals areas of  consolidation. Abscess formation is frequent  Specific tests  for individual organisms are as follows:   Pneumococcal antigen  •  Counter-immunoelectrophoresis (CIE) of sputum, urine and serum   is 3–4 times more sensitive than sputum or blood cultures.  • Urinary antigen test  detects C-polysaccharide. This is rapid and  unaffected by antibiotics; sensitivity is 65–80% and specificity about  80%.   Legionella  antigen  • Urinary antigen test  detects only serogroup 1, which accounts for  most of these infections. Sensitivity (~80%) and specificity are high  (almost 99%).  • Direct immunofluorescent staining  of organism in the pleural fluid,  sputum or bronchial washings is carried out.   Serum antibodies are less reliable. • Legionella  is not visible on Gram staining. • Culture  on special media is possible but takes up to 3 weeks.  Box 13.3   CURB-65 criteria for the diagnosis of severe  community-acquired pneumonia  •   C onfusion – defined as a mental test score of 8 or less or new   disorientation in time, place or person  •   U rea  >  7 mmol/L •   R espiratory rate  ≥  30/min •   B lood pressure: systolic  <  90 mmHg or diastolic  ≤  60 mmHg •  Age  >  65 years of age Score 0–1 — Treat as outpatient Score 2 — Admit to hospital Score 3 +  — Often require ICU care Mortality rates increase with increasing score  Other markers of severe pneumonia •  CXR — more than one lobe involved •   P aO2<  8 kPa •  Low albumin  <  35 g/L •  White cell count  <  4  ×  109/L or  >  20  ×  109/L •  Blood culture — positive  Retrospective  confirmation can be obtained by demonstrating a four- fold increase in antibody titre in the blood.  •  Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) tests on sputum   samples are becoming available.    Mycoplasma  •  Measure serum antibodies (IgM and IgG) in acute and convalescent   samples.  Cold agglutinins  are present in 50% of cases. Other methods  of identification include complement-fixing antibodies and PCR.  •  A kit for PCR is becoming available. •  NASBA tests are becoming available.   Chlamydia  antibodies  are sought by immunofluorescent complement  fixation.  The patient in hospital should be re-evaluated regularly by the nursing  staff, depending on the severity of the illness (see MEWS, p. 2).  Antibiotic therapy.  Antibiotics should be started as soon as possible,  preferably in the A&E department. The choice of the antibiotic is inevi- tably empirical and directed towards  Strep. pneumoniae , as this is the  commonest organism. Acquired antibiotic resistance is a concern but is  still rare in the UK. • Mild uncomplicated CAP  (CURB-65 0–1) is treated in the community   clarithro- mycin  500 mg twice daily or doxycycline 200 mg followed by 100 mg  daily (if penicillin-sensitive) for 5–7 days. The newer quinolones   (e.g.  levofloxacin  500 mg 1–2 times daily or  moxifloxacin  400 mg  once daily for 10 days) are used by some but increasing resistance is   Clinical features  of pneumonia  Sputum for Gram stain and counter-immunoelectrophoresis Sputum and blood for culture Blood for serological tests  Mild community  acquired Severe community  acquired  Chest X-ray  Treat with  amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily or if allergic to penicillin clarithromycin 500mg 2 times daily  Diffuse or  localized  pneumonia  If no response in 48 hours Chest X-ray and review treatment  IV 6-hourly benzyl penicillin 1.2 g or IV 8-hourly co-amoxiclav 1.2 g and IV clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily  Gram-positive cocci on  stain or  S. aureus  on culture  No  S. aureus  Review clinical progress and results of tests  Add flucloxacillin 1g  IV 6-hourly + sodium  fusidate 500 mg  8-hourly  Oral antibiotics  Adjust antibiotics on clinical progress  a concern and these agents are best reserved for patients with  co-morbidities.  • More severe infections  require  amoxicillin  500 mg–1 g 3 times daily   clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily. If oral therapy is contrain- dicated, IV  amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily or benzyl penicillin 1.2 g  4 times daily plus IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily is used. In   patients with high severity pneumonia (CURB 65 3–5),  co-amoxiclav 1.2g 6–8-hourly is combined with IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice  daily.  • If  Staph. aureus  infection is suspected  or is proven on culture, IV  flucloxacillin  1–2 g every 6 hours by slow IV injection or infusion  ± sodium fusidate  500 mg 3 times daily if over 50 kg by IV infusion  should be added. Quinolones are recommended for those intolerant  of penicillins or macrolides. Community-acquired meticillin-resistant  Staph. aureus  (CA-MRSA) can be treated with vancomycin or  linezolid.  • Parenteral antibiotics  should be switched to oral once the tempera-  ture has settled for a period of 24 hours and provided there is no  contraindication to oral therapy.  • Mycoplasma  pneumonia  is treated with a macrolide, e.g.  clarithro-  mycin  500 mg twice daily (or  azithromycin ) for 7–10 days, or a tet- racycline, e.g.  doxycycline  100 mg twice daily.  • H. influenzae  pneumonia  is treated with oral  amoxicillin  500 mg 3   times daily .  • Legionella pneumophila  pneumonia  is usually treated with one of  the macrolides,  azithromycin  being the drug of choice. Quinolones  are also effective and  rifampicin  can be added in very ill patients.  Mortality can be up to 30% in elderly patients but most patients  recover fully.   Oxygen.  All patients with hypoxaemia, acidosis and hypotension  should receive oxygen. The aim is to keep the saturation ( S aO2)  >  92%  and a  P aO2>  8 kPa (60 mmHg). If there is no history of COPD with  hypercapnia, 35% humidified O2 can be given. NIV (p. 485) may be  useful. Criteria for referral to ICU are given above and referral should  not be delayed.   Fluid balance/nutritional support.  Oral intake should encouraged  but, if this is not possible, then IV fluids need to be given. Nutrition   may be a problem for a longer illness and will need to be addressed   (p. 542).   It is commonly treated with  co - amoxiclav  1.2 g 3 times daily but mero-  penem 1 g 3 times daily is also used.    Co-morbidities require more aggressive antibiotic therapy. Manage-  ment is the same as for severe CAP, once appropriate samples for  culture and sensitivities have been taken.    Gram-negative bacteria are common and aminoglycosides (e.g.  gen-  tamicin  5 mg/kg) are often added.    Patients with  chronic chest infection  and others in whom  Pseudomonas infection is suspected should receive an anti-pseudomonal penicillin  (e.g. piperacillin plus tazobactam) or  ciprofloxacin  200–400 mg IV over  30–60 mins or  ceftazidime  2 g bolus IV 8-hourly.   Immunosuppressed patients  may require very high-dose broad- spectrum antibiotics, as well as antifungal and antiviral agents.  Aspiration pneumonia  is relatively common in hospital and usually  involves infection with multiple bacteria, including anaerobes. The oral  route is usually inappropriate in these patients. A combination of  met- ronidazole  (IV or rectal) and  co-amoxiclav  is recommended.  Tuberculosis (TB) is a systemic granulomatous disease caused by  Mycobac- terium tuberculosis . It is more common in developing countries, in particu- lar sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia. However, in the developed  countries, following many years of steady decline, the incidence of TB is  rising due to AIDS, the growing use of immunosuppressive drugs and  increased immigration of people from areas of high endemicity. TB is  transmitted between people by aerosol and therefore the most common  site of infection is the lung.  Primary TB  is the first infection with TB and occurs in those without  immunity. It is usually subpleural and a small lung lesion known as the  Ghon focus may be seen in the mid- or upper zones within 4 weeks of  infection. Hilar lymphadenopathy may be present as the tubercle bacilli  drain into the lymphatics. Primary TB is often asymptomatic; there may  be a mild cough, wheeze or erythema nodosum, and a transient pleural  effusion. The bacilli will continue to proliferate and spread until an  effective cell-mediated immune response is mounted (3–8 weeks), the  spread of infection is arrested and the tuberculin skin test is positive.  Tubercle bacilli remain dormant within calcified lesions but are capable  of reactivation.   Post-primary TB  refers to all forms of TB that occur after the first few  weeks of primary infection when immunity to  Mycobacterium  has devel- oped. It occurs as a result of reactivation of a previously dormant focus  in patients who have infection with HIV, diabetes mellitus, kidney  disease, malnutrition, silicosis, malignancy and other forms of immu- nosuppression.  Common symptoms  include cough (often productive),  fever, night sweats and weight loss.   Disseminated TB  occurs if there is unchecked proliferation and spread  of bacteria due to a failure of the host to mount an effective cell- mediated immune response. Miliary TB is a form of disseminated TB in  which the lesions on CXR resemble millet seeds. TB is an  AIDS-defining illness . It may arise in a patient with HIV from  rapid progression of primary infection, reactivation of disease or  re-infection (p. 115).  Sputum staining.  Acid-fast bacilli in the sputum can be seen by staining  with Ziehl–Neelsen (ZN) stain; alternatively, an auramine-phenol fluo- rescent test is performed. For patients who are unable to expectorate, a  bronchoscopy can be performed and a bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) or  bronchial washing taken from the affected lobe.   Transbronchial biopsies.  These can be obtained for histological and  microbiological assessment. Specimens for microbiology should be  placed in 0.9% saline and not formalin. The presence of granulomas is  virtually diagnostic of TB.   Culture.  Sputum is cultured on Ogawa or Lowenstein–Jensen medium  for 4–8 weeks. Liquid cultures are often used, as they have shorter  culture times. Antibiotic sensitivity should be performed on all  cultures.   Pleural fluid and biopsy.  Pleural fluid culture is positive for  M. tuber-  n about 40% of patients, whereas pleural biopsy culture is posi- tive in about 60% of patients with pleural TB. Pleural fluid adenosine   deaminase is elevated in tuberculous pleural effusions and may aid  diagnosis.   Imaging.  The typical CXR findings are upper lobe infiltrates with or  without cavitations (Fig. 13.5). The infiltrates are often fibronodular and  irregular. CT scans are sensitive at identifying earlier disease and may  show clusters of nodules or a ‘tree in bud’ appearance.  susceptible; drugs must be taken at the appropriate doses and must be  taken regularly; and therapy must be continued for a sufficient period of  time. Treatment can be taken at home. However, patients who are ill, smear- positive, highly infectious (especially with multi-drug resistant TB), non- compliant or those in whom the diagnosis is uncertain may require a short  period of hospitalization.  The initial phase  should consist of four drugs —  rifampicin ,  isoniazid and  pyrazinamide  plus  ethambutol  or rarely  streptomycin  for 2  months. Ethambutol can be omitted in patients who are thought to be  at low risk for isoniazid resistance. This regimen is for patients with  previously untreated TB, who are HIV-negative, are not immunosup- pressed and have not been in contact with anyone with drug-resistant  TB. Neither should they have come from an area with a high prevalence  of drug-resistant TB. The drugs are best given as a combination prepara- tion to aid compliance.  The continuation phase  starts after drug sensitivities are known (6–8  weeks) and should consist of two drugs to which the organism is sus- ceptible, given for a further 4 months.  Rifampicin  and  isoniazid  are usually standard treatment for adults with pulmonary TB (for doses see  p. 87).  Pyridoxine  10 mg daily is not routinely required but should be  given as prophylaxis against isoniazid neuropathy in patients at  increased risk, such as diabetics, alcoholics and those with dietary  deficiencies.   Directly observed therapy (DOT)  is used for patients who are unlikely  to be compliant with treatment, such as the homeless, those dependent  on alcohol and IV drug users. Special clinics are used and patients are  observed taking their tablets. Some clinics use incentives such as free  meals and cash payments to improve attendance. DOT can be given  daily but intermittent regimens such as 3 times weekly are often more  convenient. However, the effectiveness of DOT therapy is variable and  compliance is still an issue. For doses, see p. 87.  streptomycin should be avoided. Patients can breast feed normally whilst  taking anti-tuberculous chemotherapy. Those on anti-tuberculous therapy  containing rifampicin should be informed of the reduced effectiveness of  the oral contraceptive pill.  the treatment is as for pulmonary TB for 6 months but is extended if the  infection is more advanced or extensive. In tuberculous meningitis, isoni- azid and rifampicin are given for 9 months, supplemented with pyrazina- mide, streptomycin or ethambutol for the first 2 months. Adjuvant  corticosteroids for 3 weeks are recommended.   occurs in people exposed to others with drug- resistant organisms.  Secondary drug resistance  is the development of  resistance after initial drug sensitivity and usually occurs as a result of poor  compliance. WHO define two categories of drug resistance:    multi-drug resistance (MDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin   extensive drug resistance (XDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin ,  quinolones and at least one of the following second-line drugs:  capreomycin  and  amikacin . MDR and XDR are major therapeutic problems worldwide, having a high  mortality and occurring mainly in HIV-infected patients. Transmission of  MDR-TB to healthcare workers and to other patients poses a major public  health problem. The drug treatment of suspected drug resistance in both  HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients is as follows:   With MDR use at least three drugs to which the organism is sensitive.   With resistance to one of the four main drugs, use the other three. Therapy should be continued for up to 2 years, or for at least 12 months  after negative cultures in HIV-positive patients. Second-line drugs avail- able for treatment of resistant  M. tuberculosis  infection are  capreomycin ,  cycloserine ,  clarithromycin ,  azithromycin ,  ciprofloxacin ,  ofloxacin ,  kan- amycin ,  amikacin ,  moxifloxacin  and  rifabutin .  sputum examination for acid-fast bacilli with smear and culture. Once   sputum becomes negative for acid-fast bacilli, patients should have a  monthly sputum examination until culture is also negative. This is the  most reliable indicator of a response to therapy. If, after 3 months of treat- ment, symptoms have not resolved or sputum smear or culture is still  positive, either there is non-compliance with medication or drug resistance  has immerged. Specialist TB nurses and health visitors should monitor  patients’ compliance with treatment. If drug resistance occurs, the addition  of a single drug is not recommended. If new drugs are added, at least two  or preferably three should be commenced which the patient has not  already received. Subsequent treatment should be fully supervised.  tion, prior to commencing therapy. They should be informed of the pos- sible side-effects of treatment and the indications for stopping medication  and seeking advice. They should be seen in clinic regularly for the duration  of chemotherapy to ensure symptoms are improving and that there are no  adverse drug reactions. A CXR should be taken at the end of treatment.  radiological evidence and/or symptoms of TB. Latent tuberculous infec- tion is when a patient is asymptomatic, with a normal CXR but a positive  tuberculin skin test. The Mantoux test and whole-blood interferon (IFN)- γ assay are used to check for TB infection (current or past). The Mantoux test  is an intradermal injection of tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD).  A second visit is required for the test to be read (induration  >  10 mm is  positive) at 72 hours. Whole-blood IFN- γ  assay requires only a blood test  and remains negative after bacille Calmette–Guérin (BCG). Chemoprophylaxis consists of  isoniazid 300 mg  daily for 6 months or  isoniazid 300 mg  +  rifampicin 600 mg  daily for 3 months. Chemoprophy- laxis should only be prescribed after active disease has been fully ruled  out. In the USA there are annual screening tests for asymptomatic patients  who are thought to be at high risk and who would benefit from treatment  of latent TB. These include patients with HIV, residents of long-term care  facilities, those with medical conditions that increase the risk of active TB  and people with ongoing contact with patients who may have active TB,  such as healthcare workers. Chemoprophylaxis is used in the following groups of patients:    those with CXR appearances compatible with previous TB who are due   to start immunosuppressive agents, such as anti-tumour necrosis factor  (TNF) α , or treatment that has an immunosuppressive effect, such as  renal dialysis or corticosteroids    tuberculin-positive children identified in the BCG schools programme   who have a history of contact with infectious TB or have been resident  in a country with a high prevalence of TB within the last 2 years    adults between the ages of 16 and 34 found at new immigrant screening   without BCG history    adults with latent TB who have risk factors for progression to active TB   disease including those with documented recent tuberculin conversion,  those with a history of untreated TB, and those with chronic disease and  immunosuppressive disease    close contacts of patients with active disease and a positive tuberculin     patients with HIV who have been in close contact with a person who   has active TB; this should be irrespective of the tuberculin test, as in  HIV there may be a loss of response to tuberculin.  cases at an early stage. All close family members, other individuals who  share a kitchen or bathroom, or close contacts at school or work are  screened. Those with symptoms are thoroughly investigated for TB and  asymptomatic individuals are sent for CXR and a tuberculin skin test.  Diffuse parenchymal lung disorders (DPLD; also known as interstitial lung  disease) are a heterogeneous group of disorders consisting of over 200  entities and accounting for about 15% of respiratory clinical practice. They  are characterized by chronic inflammation and progressive fibrosis of the  pulmonary interstitium.    progressive onset of increasing shortness of breath or a persistent non-  productive cough    pulmonary symptoms associated with another disorder, such as an   autoimmune rheumatic disease    an abnormal CXR or abnormal lung function or spirometry, usually   showing a restrictive defect    rarely, haemoptysis, pleurisy or a pneumothorax.  Signs.  Clubbing suggests idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, DPLD second-  ary to rheumatoid arthritis or asbestosis. Auscultation reveals fine   end-inspiratory or more sporadic crackles and wheezes. There may be  signs of pulmonary hypertension in patients with severe disease, or  extrapulmonary signs, e.g. ocular features in sarcoidosis or vasculitis;  skin disease may suggest a rheumatological disorder; erythema  nodosum sarcoidosis or a mononeuritis multiplex may indicate a  vasculitis.  Routine blood tests  are rarely diagnostic but may aid the process.  • FBC,  including differential, may show anaemia, e.g. chronic disease  (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis), an iron deficiency secondary to alveolar  haemorrhage, or peripheral blood eosinophilia ( >  1.5  ×  109/L) sec- ondary to pulmonary eosinophilia or drug reactions.  • IgE level  is useful to discriminate between chronic forms of pulmo-  nary eosinophilia in which IgE levels will be low and allergic forms.  • Hypercalcaemia  might be present in patients with sarcoidosis. • ACE concentrations  are helpful in monitoring sarcoid treatment,  although raised levels are not diagnostic of sarcoidosis.  • Serological tests. Antinuclear antibodies  may be present in auto-  immune rheumatic diseases. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies  (ANCA) and anti-glomerular basement antibodies point towards a  systemic vasculitis.  Serum precipitins  suggest a hypersensitivity  pneumonitis secondary to farming or pigeon breeding.  Raised ESR and hypergammaglobulinaemia  may be present but are  not diagnostic.   Pulmonary function tests  may be normal initially, but as disease  progresses they show a restrictive pattern: reduction in total lung   capacity (TLC), residual volume (RV), functional residual capacity  (FRC) and flow rate (reduced FEV1 and FVC with a normal or increased  ratio).   ABGs  may be normal or show hypoxia with a respiratory acidosis.  Carbon dioxide retention is unusual until end-stage disease. If ABGs are  normal, exercise assessment must be performed, as arterial oxygenation  frequently falls on exercise.   Imaging  with CXR and high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT)  should be carried out. All radiology should be compared to previous  films if available.   Echocardiography  assesses for pulmonary hypertension and the pres-  ence of cardiac failure that may be contributing to the diffuse shadow- ing on CXR.   ECG  to look for conduction defects, e.g. sarcoidosis.  Bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)  do not usually have  a role in diagnosis or disease monitoring but are helpful if a surgical  biopsy is not possible.   Transbronchial biopsy  taken during bronchoscopy. Biopsies are most  useful in granulomatous diseases, such as sarcoidosis, and malignant  disease, such as lymphangitis carcinomatosis.   Lung biopsy  is frequently required when the diagnosis remains  uncertain.   Surgical biopsy  can be obtained from more than one site, guided  by the HRCT results. Two approaches are commonly used: video- assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) or a limited thoracotomy. VATS  is preferred, as it is less invasive and is associated with lower morbidity  and mortality.  tion and radiological changes is needed in order to follow progression of  disease and response to therapy.  and pulmonary oedema should be excluded. Histological confirmation is  required in most cases prior to commencement of specific treatment. In  general, drug regimens usually include corticosteroids,  azathioprine, cyclophosphamide  or  mycophenolate .   This multi-system granulomatous disorder of unknown aetiology   usually presents with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, pulmonary  infiltrations, and skin and eye lesions.    It commonly affects young adults, particularly women, with the peak   incidence in the third and fourth decades.    More than 90% of patients have involvement of the lungs and thoracic   lymph nodes.    The most common presentation is with respiratory symptoms, such as   (50%).    Peripheral lymphadenopathy occurs in 5%, fatigue or weight loss in 5%,   and fever in 4%.    Extrapulmonary manifestations include:  •  skin disorders: erythema nodosum, lupus pernio — 10% •  ocular lesions: anterior uveitis, posterior uveitis, conjunctivitis,   retinal lesions, uveoparotid fever (bilateral uveitis, parotid enlarge- ment with occasional development of facial nerve palsy) and kerato- conjunctivitis sicca  •  metabolic manifestations: hypercalcaemia (10% of cases) and hyper-  calciuria, which can result in the development of renal calculi and  nephrocalcinosis  •  CNS disorders: rare — 2%; can cause chronic meningoencephalitis,   spinal cord lesions, cranial nerve palsies, polyneuropathy and  myopathy  •  bone and joint involvement: arthralgia and bone cysts •  hepatosplenomegaly •  cardiac involvement: rare (3%), including arrhythmias, conduction   defects and cardiomyopathy with congestive cardiac failure.  CXR  characteristically shows bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy (BHL).  The differential diagnosis for BHL includes lymphoma, TB, enlarged  pulmonary arteries, metastatic carcinoma and histoplasmosis. There   are four stages of pulmonary involvement based on the radiological  stage of the disease. The stage of disease provides prognostic  information. • Stage I:  BHL alone • Stage II:  BHL with pulmonary infiltrates • Stage III:  pulmonary infiltrates without BHL • Stage IV:  fibrosis.   HRCT chest  shows enlarged hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes, and  diffuse lung involvement with nodules along the bronchi and blood  vessels and in sub-pleural regions. There is beading and irregular thick- ening of broncho-vascular bundles and bronchial wall thickening.  Fibrosis and traction bronchiectasis occur late in the disease.   Other investigations  are as for DPLD. The tuberculin test is negative in  80% of cases but is of no diagnostic value. Serum ACE is raised in 75%  of cases.  Patients with no symptoms,  normal lung function and only hilar lym-  phadenopathy on CXR (stage I) require no treatment. Spontaneous   resolution commonly occurs within a year or two of diagnosis.   Corticosteroids  are the mainstay of treatment for patients with  infiltrates on CXR and abnormal lung function (stages II and III)   and those with chronic progressive disease (stage IV). Systemic   steroids should also be prescribed for ophthalmic symptoms not  responding to topical steroids, cardiac or neurological symptoms, and  hypercalcaemia. • Prednisolone  is usually started at 30 mg a day for 6 weeks and, in   10 mg a day or alternate-day treatment. Treatment should be contin- ued for a minimum of 1 year, keeping patients on the lowest possible  dose that controls symptoms.  •  Severe or persistent erythema nodosum and uveoparotid fever due   to sarcoid will respond to a 2-week course of prednisolone 5–15 mg  daily.  •  Topical steroids can be beneficial for skin lesions, uveitis/iritis and   nasal polyps. There is no clear evidence for the benefit of inhaled  steroids.   Ophthalmic reviews  are carried out regularly for patients with eye  signs, as uveitis can occasionally lead to blindness.   Other forms of treatment  clearly benefit some patients and drugs can  be useful as steroid-sparing agents, although the evidence remains  unclear.  Methotrexate  can be prescribed in chronic or refractory sarcoid  at a dose of 10–25 mg once a week.  Side-effects  include gastrointestinal  symptoms, hepatotoxicity, pulmonary oedema, interstitial pneumonitis  and pulmonary fibrosis.  Hydroxychloroquine  can be used in acute and  chronic disease at a dose of 200–400 mg/day.  Side-effects  include gas- trointestinal disturbances, visual changes and retinal damage, headache  and skin reactions.  Azathioprine  is used in chronic and refractory  disease at a dose of 50–200 mg/day; for  side-effects , see Table 6.3.  Cyclophosphamide  is given in chronic and refractory cases at a dose of  50–150 mg/ day orally;  side-effects  include gastrointestinal distur- bances, haemorrhagic cystitis and haematological toxicity. Mortality is usually  <  5% in the UK but can be up to 10% in black  Americans.  inflammation and fibrosis in the lung parenchyma. There are a number of  subtypes, of which the commonest is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).  nosis, which eventually leads to respiratory failure, pulmonary hyperten- sion and cor pulmonale.  Investigations (p. 516)  • CXR  initially shows a ground glass appearance, followed by irregular  reticulo-nodular shadowing maximal in the lower zones and finally  a honeycomb lung (thick walled cysts 0.5–2 cm in diameter).  • HRCT  shows bilateral predominantly lower lobe changes with basal  and subpleural reticular abnormalities associated with honeycomb- ing and traction bronchiectasis. There is minimal ground glass  attenuation.  • Brain natriuretic peptide  levels are raised in patients with pulmo-  nary hypertension.  • Respiratory function tests  show a restrictive pattern (p. 517). • Invasive diagnostic procedures  — see p. 517.   Treatment.  Treatment is with  prednisolone ,  azathioprine  and  N-acetylcysteine  unless there are contraindications. Domiciliary oxygen  is given for disabling disease. If there is no response, other therapies  such as  cyclophosphamide  may be tried.  Prognosis.  The median survival is about 5 years.  tis) is due to inhalation of organic dusts, e.g. microbial spores found in  contaminated vegetable matter like straw or hay (farmer’s lung), or in the  feathers or excreta of birds, e.g. pigeons (bird fancier’s lung). Fever,  malaise, cough and shortness of breath occur after exposure.  Diagnosis.  Lung function tests show a restrictive pattern and precipitat-  ing antibodies to the antigen are found in the serum.   Treatment.  Treatment is by removal of the antigen, if possible, dust  masks or, in acute cases,  prednisolone .  include direct toxicity (e.g.  bleomycin ), immune complex formation with  arteritis, hypersensitivity and autoimmunity. TB reactivation is seen with  immunosuppressive drugs, e.g. monoclonal antibodies. Table 13.6 gives  some drugs and their respiratory reactions. For further interactions see  www.pneumotox.com. Irradiation  damage following radiotherapy can cause a radiation pneu-  monitis. Patients present with breathlessness and a dry cough. They have  a restrictive lung defect and corticosteroids can be used in the acute stage.  of  >  25 mmHg at rest. It may present spontaneously with no apparent  underlying disease (idiopathic pulmonary hypertension) or it can occur in  association with other diseases, e.g. COPD, pulmonary thromboembolism  or left-sided heart disease (mitral stenosis).  monary artery hypertension (PAH), followed by right ventricular failure.  Groups II–V are classified as having pulmonary hypertension (PH).  Group I: PAH.  This consists of idiopathic, familial and pulmonary artery  hypertension due to disease of the small muscular arterioles. The latter  include autoimmune rheumatic diseases, congenital systemic to pulmo- nary shunts (e.g. congenital heart disease), portal hypertension, HIV  infection and drug toxicity (e.g. dexfenfluramine). This group also  includes diseases associated with significant venous or capillary  involvement, e.g. pulmonary veno-occlusive disease.   Group II: PH owing to left-sided heart disease.  This describes increased  pulmonary venous pressure due to left ventricular dysfunction or mitral  valve disease.   Group III: PH owing to lung diseases and/or hypoxia.  This includes  COPD, interstitial lung disease of sleep-disordered breathing, alveolar  hypoventilation disorders, chronic exposure to high altitude and devel- opmental abnormalities.  Group IV: Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). This includes thrombosis of the proximal or distal pulmonary vascula- ture and also non-thrombotic pulmonary embolism (tumour, parasites,  foreign material).  Table 13.6   Some drug-induced respiratory reactions  Disease Drugs  Bronchospasm Penicillins, cephalosporins  Sulphonamides  Aspirin/NSAIDs  Monoclonal antibodies, e.g. infliximab  Iodine-containing contrast media  β -Adrenoceptor-blocking drugs (e.g.  propranolol)  Non-depolarizing muscle relaxants  IV thiamine  Adenosine  Amiodarone  Anakinra (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist)  Diffuse parenchymal  lung disease and/or  fibrosis  Nitrofurantoin  Paraquat  Continuous oxygen  Cytotoxic agents (many, particularly  busulfan, CCNU, bleomycin, methotrexate)  Pulmonary eosinophilia Antibiotics (penicillin, tetracycline)  Sulphonamides, e.g. sulfasalazine  NSAIDs  Cytotoxic agents  Acute lung injury Paraquat  Pulmonary hypertension Fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, phentermine  Hydralazine  Procainamide  Isoniazid  SLE-like syndrome  including pulmonary  infiltrates, effusions and  fibrosis  Phenytoin  ACE inhibitors  Monoclonal antibodies  Reactivation of TB Immunosuppressant drugs, e.g. steroids  Biological agents, e.g. tumour necrosis  factor blockers  Group V: PH with unclear multi-factorial mechanisms.  This includes  sarcoidosis, Langerhans’ cell histiocytosis, lymphangioleiomyomatosis  and compression of pulmonary vessels (adenopathy, tumour or fibros- ing mediastinitis).  pulmonary vessels caused by remodelling, vasoconstriction, hypoxia and  acidosis with thrombosis. This eventually leads to PH and an increase in  right ventricular afterload, with right ventricular hypertrophy and heart  failure.  classification to the New York scheme for heart failure (p. 417) is used for  assessment.  CXR, ECG and transthoracic echocardiography  are used to assess  severity of PH; appropriate investigations to exclude causal problems  is essential.   HRCT  is used to assess lung fields and size of the pulmonary artery.  Cardiac MR  with contrast provides high-quality images of the pulmo-  nary circulation.  diuretics  for fluid  overload and anticoagulation with  warfarin  for pulmonary thromboem- bolism.  O2 therapy  is necessary for patients with hypoxia at rest or after  exercise. Vasodilatation therapy is being used in PAH;  bosentan ,  sildenafil  and  inhaled iloprost  have all shown some benefit. Atrial septostomy and lung  transplantation is used for patients unresponsive to therapy. N.B.  There is no evidence for the use of angiotensin receptor blockers,  ACE inhibitors or  α -blockers.  or rarely from the right heart can dislodge and embolize into the pulmo- nary arterial system. Thrombi can form due to sluggish blood flow, local  injury, compression of the vein or a hypercoaguable state. Tumour or fat  can also embolize. Embolism results in the lung tissue being unperfused but ventilated,  producing an intrapulmonary dead space and resulting in impaired gas  exchange.  Small to medium PEs  cause a sudden onset of breathlessness, with  pleuritic chest pain and haemoptysis.   Multiple recurrent PEs  can lead to breathlessness over weeks or  months. They can cause fatigue, syncope on exertion and occasionally  angina. The signs are those of PH.   Massive PE  is rare but a medical emergency. The patient may suddenly   collapse with severe central chest pain, shock (pale and sweaty), tachy- pnoea and tachycardia. There may be cyanosis and syncope, and death  can occur rapidly. On examination the patient is hypotensive, with signs  of right ventricular overload (a right ventricular heave and a loud pul- monary second sound). The revised Geneva score (Table 13.7) gives the clinical probability of   a PE.  522  Table 13.7   Revised Geneva score for the clinical prediction of a  pulmonary embolism  Criterion Score  Risk factors  Age  >  65 years + 1  Previous deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism + 3  Surgery or fracture within 1 month + 2  Active malignancy + 2  Symptoms  Unilateral leg pain + 3  Haemoptysis + 2  Clinical signs  Heart rate (bpm)    75–94 + 3   ≥  95 + 5  Pain on leg deep vein palpation and unilateral oedema + 4  Clinical probability  Low 0–3  Intermediate 4–10  High ≥  11  Small/medium or recurrent emboli  • CXR.  This is often normal. Linear atelectasis, blunting of a costo-  phrenic angle (due to a small effusion) and a raised hemidiaphragm  may be seen after some time. Rarely, a wedge-shaped pulmonary  infarct is seen. Previous infarcts are seen as opaque linear scars, and  enlarged pulmonary arterioles with oligaemic lung fields indicate  advanced disease.  • ECG.  This is usually normal, except for sinus tachycardia. Sometimes  atrial fibrillation or another tachyarrhythmia occurs.  • Blood tests.  There is a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, a raised ESR  and increased serum lactate dehydrogenase levels.  • Plasma D-dimer.  This is positive. If undetectable, it excludes a diag-  nosis of PE.  • CT.  Contrast-enhanced, multi-detector CT angiograms (CTAs) have  a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 96%, with a positive predictive  value of 92% (higher with 64-multislice scanners). This is the inves- tigation of choice.  • Radionuclide ventilation/perfusion scanning ( � � V Q / scan).  This is a  good initial test after measurement of D-dimers. It demonstrates  ventilation/perfusion defects, i.e. areas of ventilated lung with per- fusion defects. Pulmonary 99mtechnetium scintigraphy demonstrates   523  the under-perfused areas, while a scintigram, performed after inhala- tion of radioactive xenon, shows no ventilatory defect. A matched  defect may, however, arise with a PE that causes an infarct, or with  emphysematous bullae. This test is therefore conventionally reported  as a probability (low, medium or high) of PE and should be inter- preted in the context of the history, examination and other  investigations.  • US.  This is used for detection of clots in pelvic or ilio-femoral veins. • MRI.  This gives similar results and is used if CTA is  contraindicated.   Massive pulmonary emboli  • CXR  may show pulmonary oligaemia, sometimes with dilatation of  the pulmonary artery in the hila. Often there are no changes.  • ECG  shows right atrial dilatation with tall peaked P waves in lead  II. Right ventricular strain and dilatation give rise to right axis devia- tion, a degree of right bundle branch block, and T wave inversion in  the right precordial leads. The ‘classic’ ECG pattern with an S wave  in lead I, and a Q wave and inverted T waves in lead III (S1, Q3, T3),  is rare.  • ABGs  show arterial hypoxaemia with a low arterial CO2 level, i.e.  type I respiratory failure pattern.  • Echocardiography  shows a vigorously contracting left ventricle, and  occasionally a dilated right ventricle and a clot in the right ventricular  outflow tract.  • Pulmonary angiography  has now been replaced by CT and MR  angiography.   Give high-flow oxygen (60–100%), unless there is significant chronic   lung disease. Bed rest and analgesia are prescribed for patients with  pulmonary infarcts.    Severe cases require:  •  Resuscitation with IV fluids with or without inotropic agents to   improve the pumping of the right heart. Very ill patients will require  care on the ICU.  •  Fibrinolytic therapy is indicated with persistent hypotension.   Alteplase 10 mg IV over 1–2 mins, followed by IV infusion of 90 mg  over 2 hours; or streptokinase 250 000 units by IV infusion over  30 mins, followed by streptokinase 100 000 U IV hourly for up to  12–72 hours according to manufacturer’s instructions. This can clear  pulmonary emboli more rapidly and confer a survival benefit.  •  Rarely, surgical embolectomy, when there is no alternative for very   severe haemodynamic problems.   Start low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).   Give oral anticoagulants immediately and taper off heparin as the oral   anticoagulant becomes effective (INR 2-3). Oral anticoagulants are con- tinued for 6 weeks to 6 months, depending on the likelihood of recur- rence of venous thrombosis or embolism. Recurrent embolism requires  lifelong treatment. As an alternative to warfarin, oral thrombotic drugs  are available (p. 71). They do not need preliminary heparin treatment.    Vena cava filters (temporary or permanent) can be inserted percutane-  the legs to the lungs. They are used for recurrent emboli with the patient  already on warfarin. Warfarin can subsequently be stopped.  An effusion is an excessive accumulation of fluid within the pleural   space.  disease. They are usually divided into transudates and exudates.  Transudates  occur due to increased hydrostatic or decreased oncotic  pressures. Common causes include heart failure, cirrhosis and  hypoproteinaemia.   Exudates  occur due to an increase in capillary permeability when the  pleural surface or lung is damaged. Common causes include pulmonary  emboli, malignancy, a post-pneumonia effusion and TB.   Small effusions are often asymptomatic.   Patients with larger effusions usually present with shortness of breath,   with or without pleuritic chest pain, or with symptoms associated with  the underlying disease.   Clinical examination  shows reduced expansion, a stony dull percus-  sion note, reduced or absent breath sounds, and reduced or absent vocal  fremitus on the affected side. In massive pleural effusions the trachea  can be deviated.  CXROver 300 mL of pleural fluid can be detected on a CXR (Fig. 13.6). Small  effusions can be seen as obliteration of the costophrenic angle, whilst large   525  effusions produce a dense homogeneous shadow occupying part of the  hemithorax.  Removal of large amounts of fluid should be done under ultrasound guid- ance which reduces the risk of pneumothorax and other complications. It  is not necessary if the likely diagnosis is a transudate, e.g. left ventricular  failure.  Diagnostic aspiration  is usually performed with a green needle and a   50 mL syringe under aseptic conditions. The best position for aspiration  is posteriorly, about 10 cm lateral to the spine. Local anaesthetic lido- caine 1% should be infiltrated prior to aspiration.   Fluid  should be sent for microbiological, biochemical and cytological  analysis.   Appearance and odour  •  Clear straw-coloured fluid that does not clot on standing indicates a   transudate.  •  An exudate may look the same but is usually more turbid due to the   presence of cells.  •  Blood-tinged fluid is non-diagnostic but a uniformly bloody effusion   is likely to be secondary to a malignancy, PE with infarction or  trauma. If the haematocrit in the pleural fluid is more than half that  of the patient’s peripheral blood haematocrit, the diagnosis is a  haemothorax.  •  Purulent, viscous, unpleasant-smelling yellow fluid suggests pus and   an empyema.   Protein content.  Under 30 g/L of protein is a transudate;  >  30 g/L   indicates an exudate. However, if the patient has an abnormal serum  protein concentration or the pleural protein is between 25 and 35 g/L,  Light’s criteria should be used to differentiate between the two.   Light’s criteria and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH).  The pleural fluid is  an exudate if: •  fluid to serum ratio of total protein is  >  0.5 •  fluid to serum ratio of LDH is  >  0.6  and/or •  the pleural fluid LDH is more than two-thirds of the upper limit of   normal serum LDH.   Cell type.  The white cell count can be helpful but is often not  diagnostic. • Neutrophilia  suggests infection, e.g. post pneumonia. • Lymphocytosis  indicates TB or malignancy, e.g. lymphoma. • Eosinophilia  is not diagnostic. • Red cells  suggest trauma, malignancy or pulmonary emboli. • Malignant cells  may be present.   Glucose and pH.  Glucose of  <  3.3 mmol/L suggests malignancy, TB or   rheumatoid arthritis. A low pH  <  7.2 is usually due to infection (requir- ing drainage) or malignancy.   Amylase pleural fluid/serum ratio.  A ratio  >  1 suggests acute pancrea-  nancy (especially adenocarcinoma).   CT chest.  CT chest with contrast may be useful in cases of difficult  drainage to delineate the size and location of loculations.   Percutaneous pleural biopsy.  This is performed for patients with an  undiagnosed exudative pleural effusion when there is a clinical suspi- cion of malignancy or TB. It can be done blind with an Abram’s needle  or under CT guidance. Samples should always be sent for TB testing, in  sterile saline and not formalin. All biopsy and aspiration sites should  be marked with Indian ink; if the final diagnosis is mesothelioma,  patients will require radiotherapy to the biopsy site within 1 month to  prevent seeding in the biopsy track.   Bronchoscopy.  This should only be performed if there is haemoptysis  or any evidence to suggest bronchial obstruction.   Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS).  VATS allows direct visualiza-  tion of the pleura and should be performed if all other, less invasive  tests fail to provide a diagnosis. It is very effective for the diagnosis of  malignant effusions.  Transudates  usually resolve with treatment of the underlying condi-  tion. Occasionally, pleurodesis and shunts are required to control  symptoms.   Symptomatic pleural effusions  may require drainage of a large amount  of pleural fluid. Re-expansion pulmonary oedema is a rare complication  that can occur when more than 1 L is drained. For frequent recurrent  re-accumulations of fluid an intercostal drain is used and, provided  there is a confirmed diagnosis, pleurodesis may be necessary.   Indications for chest tube drainage  include frankly purulent or turbid  fluid on pleural aspiration, positive pleural fluid Gram stain or culture,  a pleural fluid pH  <  7.2, loculated pleural collections and large non- purulent effusions that are causing symptoms. If there is a poor response  to antibiotics alone, chest tube drainage may be required. If the chest  tube becomes  blocked  it can be flushed with 20–50 mL of 0.9% saline to  ensure patency. If drainage still remains poor, repeat imaging should be  used to confirm the position and look for the presence of loculations.  rial spread from a severe pneumonia or rupture of a lung abscess into the  pleural space. There is usually infection with an anaerobic organism (in  70%), and the patient is very ill and has a high temperature.  culture is performed to rule out septicaemia. FBC, U&E and liver biochem- istry are performed routinely.  Antibiotics (BTS guidelines).  Antibiotics should be given according to  culture results and sensitivities for up to 6 weeks. They should cover  both aerobic and anaerobic organisms, e.g. IV  cefuroxime  1 g 6–8- hourly and IV  metronidazole  500 mg 8-hourly for 5 days. This should  be followed with  oral cefaclor  and  metronidazole . If no culture results  are available, a broad-spectrum antibiotic with metronidazole is given  intravenously.   Intercostal drainage.  Intercostal drainage under US or CT guidance is  required to drain the empyema.   Surgery.  Patients with persistent sepsis and a persistent pleural collec-  tion despite antibiotics and chest tube drainage for 7 days should be  referred to a thoracic surgeon.  Intercostal  drainage  and  pleurodesis  prevents pleural fluid  re-accumulation. A chest drain is inserted and the pleural effusion  drained to dryness in a controlled manner so as to prevent re-expansion  pulmonary oedema. A CXR should be performed to confirm drainage  of pleural fluid, re-expansion of the lung and the position of the inter- costal drain. A chemical is then instilled into the pleural space, leading  to inflammation and formation of adhesions between the two layers of  the pleura.  Lidocaine  3 mg/kg is instilled into the pleural space, fol- lowed by the sclerosing agent. The chest drain should then be clamped  for 1 hour and the patient rotated if talc slurry has been used. The chest  drain can be unclamped and, provided the lung remains fully  re-expanded and there is satisfactory drainage of pleural fluid, should  be removed within 12–72 hours. Success rates are usually  >  60%. Side- effects include pleuritic pain and fever. There are a number of sclerosing  agents available, e.g.  tetracycline ,  bleomycin  and  doxycycline . Talc is  usually the preferred agent, as it is inexpensive, widely available and  effective. However,  <  1% of patients may develop respiratory failure  post instillation. The recommended dose is 2–5 g.   Thoracoscopy  can be used to deliver talc poudrage, which has a mean  pleurodesis success rate of  >  90%.   Pleural abrasion or partial pleurectomy  can also be performed via  thoracoscopy in patients who have a good prognosis.   Other measures  include chronic indwelling pleural catheters, pleuro- peritoneal shunts, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.  Pneumothorax means air in the pleural space. A  primary  spontaneous  pneumothorax occurs in patients with no underlying lung disease. They  are usually found in young, tall, thin men and are caused by the rupture  of a pleural bleb, which is usually apical. A  secondary  spontaneous pneu- mothorax occurs in individuals with underlying lung disease, such as  COPD. Traumatic pneumothorax is the result of blunt or penetrating chest  wounds.  with progressively increasing shortness of breath and occasionally a  cough. The history may reveal an underlying disease process or history of  trauma. Patients with a small pneumothorax have no signs on clinical examina-  absent breath sounds, reduced vocal fremitus, and normal or hyper- resonant percussion note on the affected side. If the pneumothorax is  under tension the patient will be distressed, tachypnoeic, cyanosed and  hypotensive, and the trachea is deviated away from the affected side.  Box 13.4   Simple aspiration of a pneumothorax  1. Explain the nature of the procedure and obtain consent 2. Infiltrate 2% lidocaine down to the pleura in the second   intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line  3. Push a 3–4 cm 16 French gauge cannula through the pleura 4. Connect the cannula to a three-way tap and 50 mL syringe 5. Aspirate up to 2.5 L of air. Stop if resistance to suction is felt or   the patient coughs excessively  6. Repeat CXR (in expiration) in the X-ray department  Imaging.  A CXR usually makes the diagnosis by showing a pleural line.  In a tension pneumothorax there may be deviation of the trachea and  mediastinal shift away from the affected side. If a pneumothorax is  clinically suspected but the PA film looks normal, a lateral radiograph  may help detection. CT scans are useful in patients with severe bullous  lung disease, as they help to differentiate an emphysematous bulla from  a pneumothorax.   ABGs.  These may show hypoxia, particularly in patients with underly-  ing chest disease. Hypercapnia may be present in COPD. Acute respira- tory alkalosis may occur if there is pain, anxiety or severe hypoxia.  Medicine p. 715)  If the patient has no symptoms and the CXR shows a rim of air  <  2 cm   between the lung margin and the chest wall, no treatment is necessary.  These patients can be discharged and reviewed in outpatients in 2–4  weeks. They should be advised not to travel by air or go diving.    If a patient is breathless and/or has a rim of air of  >  2 cm between the   lung margin and the chest wall, high-flow oxygen should be given and  aspiration of air should be attempted (Box 13.4).    Repeated aspiration is performed if the first attempt was unsuccessful   and  <  2.5 L of air was aspirated.    If the above measures fail and the lung does not re-expand and/or the   patient remains breathless, an intercostal drain should be inserted and  connected to an underwater seal or a Heimlich flutter valve (one-way  valve). If, after 24 hours, the lung has fully expanded and there is no  ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed.    A bubbling chest drain should never be clamped. Some experienced   chest physicians support the clamping of non-bubbling chest drains  prior to removal to detect small air leaks. This should only be done  under the supervision of a respiratory physician, on a specialist ward  with experienced nurses. If the patient’s symptoms get worse or  subcutaneous emphysema develops, the drain should be unclamped  immediately.    Suction can be applied to the intercostal drain if, 48 hours after insertion,   This should be performed on a specialist ward using a high-volume,  low-pressure ( − 10 to  − 20 cmH2O) system.   Surgical referral  is indicated if the lung fails to re-expand or there is an  ongoing air leak after 5–7 days. Surgical referrals should also be made  for patients with a second ipsilateral pneumothorax, a first contralateral  pneumothorax, bilateral spontaneous pneumothorax or spontaneous  haemothorax, and for those in a profession at risk, such as pilots and  divers. Surgical treatment includes inspection of the lung and pleura  under VATS for blebs, bullous areas or breaches in the parietal pleura;  these are dealt with by staple resection, electrocautery or ligation. At  the same time, a procedure that creates pleurodesis can be performed.  The options to prevent recurrence include pleurectomy, pleural abra- sion with a scourer, or talc pleurodesis.   Observation alone is recommended only for asymptomatic patients   with a small pneumothorax of  <  1 cm or a small apical pneumothorax.  These patients should be observed in hospital. All other cases require  intervention.    Simple aspiration is recommended only in patients under the age of   50 who have minimal shortness of breath and a small pneumothorax   of  <  2 cm. Treatment of the underlying lung disease may also be  required.    Intercostal drain insertion is recommended for most patients with sec-  ondary pneumothorax, except for those described above. As for primary  pneumothorax, if, after 24 hours, the lung is fully re-expanded and there  is no ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed. Suction is as for  primary pneumothorax.    A surgical referral should be made if the lung fails to re-expand or   there is an air leak after 3 days. Surgical options are as for primary  pneumothorax.  inspiration and cannot be expelled on expiration. This leads to increasing  accumulation of air within the pleural space, positive intrapleural pressure  throughout breathing, deflation of the lung, mediastinal shift, decreased  venous return to the heart, and ultimately respiratory and cardiac embar- rassment that can lead to a cardiac arrest. It is more common in patients  on positive pressure ventilation and should be considered in those with  respiratory/cardiovascular compromise post chest trauma or post any  procedure in which the thorax is pierced with a needle. Treatment is with  immediate decompression by placing a 14-gauge cannula into the second  intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line. The diagnosis is confirmed if  there is release of air with immediate improvement in symptoms. A chest  drain should then be inserted on the affected side. For all pneumothoraces, air travel should be avoided until full  resolution.  Calvaley PMA, Walter P: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,  Lancet 362:1053–1081, 2008. Jaff MR: Management of massive and sub-massive pulmonary embolism.  A scientific statement from the American Heart Association,  Circulation 123:1–43, 2011.  530  
CHAPTER CONTENTS  Approach to the patient  473  Pneumonia  505  Tuberculosis  512  Chronic obstructive   pulmonary disease  474  Diffuse parenchymal   lung disorders  516  Obstructive sleep apnoea/ hypopnoea syndrome  488  Pulmonary hypertension  520  Cystic fibrosis  490  Pleural effusion  525  Asthma  496  Pneumothorax  528   A productive cough  is a feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease (COPD) or bronchiectasis (large volumes). Yellow sputum does  not always indicate infection, as eosinophils in the sputum can give   the same appearance, e.g. in asthma. Green sputum usually implies  infection.   Haemoptysis  (blood-stained sputum) varies from small streaks of blood  to massive bleeding. •  Mild haemoptysis is usually caused by an acute infection, e.g. exa-  cerbations of COPD, but it should not be attributed to this without  investigation.  •  Other common causes are pulmonary infarction, bronchial carcinoma   and TB.  •  In lobar pneumonia, the sputum is usually rusty in appearance rather   than frankly blood-stained.  •  Pink, frothy sputum is seen in pulmonary oedema. •  In bronchiectasis, the blood is often mixed with purulent sputum. •  Massive haemoptyses ( >  200 mL of blood in 24 hours) are usually   due to bronchiectasis or TB. Haemoptysis should always be investigated. Often, the diagnosis can be  made from a CXR, but a normal CXR does not exclude disease. Bronchos- copy is only diagnostic in about 5% of patients with haemoptysis and a  normal CXR. For  management of a massive haemoptysis , see Box 13.1. Treatment of cough  is the treatment of the underlying cause and often  symptomatic. Anti-tussives include  codeine linctus  5–10 mL 3–4 times  daily or  pholcodine  5 mL 3–4 times daily. There is no evidence that expec- torants work but  simple linctus  5 mL 3–4 times daily is comforting.  mented. Breathlessness can be of sudden onset, e.g. in acute left ventricular   Box 13.1   Management of massive haemoptysis  As little as 250 mL can fill the bronchial tree and be life-threatening.  This is uncommon but frightening for everyone involved. •  Monitor oxygen saturation with oximetry, BP and pulse rate •  Exclude coagulation defects •  Perform a CXR •  Endotracheal intubation and suction may be required •  Urgent bronchoscopy is needed •  A double lumen endotracheal tube can be inserted by an   anaesthetist to protect the unaffected lung  •  Bronchial artery embolization is highly effective if the bleeding   vessel can be identified and bleeding continues  failure, or more progressive, as in COPD. It may vary at different times of  the day, e.g. in asthma it is usually worse in the morning. Breathlessness on lying flat occurs in, for example, pulmonary oedema  (p. 425). Breathlessness with a wheeze occurring on exposure to an   allergen is seen in asthma (e.g. horse riding). It can occur many hours   after exposure to an allergen (p. 520) in, for example, hypersensitivity  pneumonitis. Inhalation of foreign bodies can cause choking and acute shortage of  breath. Treatment is with the Heimlich manoeuvre. See Emergencies in  Medicine p. 714.  other causes, e.g. localized pain in costochondritis. Shoulder tip pain sug- gests irritation of the diaphragmatic pleura. Retrosternal soreness occurs  with tracheitis but also in other conditions, e.g. oesophagitis, when it is  usually burning. Chest pain should always be differentiated from cardiac  pain, which is usually a central crushing chest pain radiating to the jaw,  neck and left arm (p. 431).  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a slowly progressive  condition predominantly caused by smoking and is the sixth commonest  cause of death worldwide; its incidence is increasing. It is characterized by  airflow limitation, which is not fully reversible. The lungs have an abnor- mal inflammatory response to inhaled particles or gases, resulting in  airflow limitation. The GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive  Lung Disease, WHO) criteria for the diagnosis of lung disease are shown  in Table 13.1.  474  Table 13.1   COPD — Global Initiative in Obstructive Lung Disease  (GOLD) criteria  Stage of  COPD Function Symptoms of  breathlessness  None or mild  I Mild FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≥  80% predicted  On exertion  II Moderate FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  50% and  ≤  80% of  predicted  On minimal exertion,  e.g. dressing  III Severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  30% and  ≤  50% of  predicted  At rest  IV Very severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1<  30% predicted or  FEV1<  50% predicted plus  respiratory failure  tal pollution are the major causes for COPD in the world, although only  10–20% of heavy smokers develop COPD.   Inflammation, infection, scarring, loss of elasticity and increased secre-  tion of mucus (which blocks airways) all play a role. There is also an  imbalance of protease and antiprotease activity ( α1-antitrypsin being the  major antiprotease).    Small airways are particularly affected early in the process (obstructive   bronchiolitis).    If airway narrowing is combined with emphysema (loss of elastic recoil   of the lung with collapse of small airways during expiration), airflow  limitation is even more severe.   Microscopically , there is infiltration of the walls of bronchi and bron-  chioles by acute and chronic inflammatory cells, with ulceration of  epithelial layers leading to squamous metaplasia, scarring and thicken- ing of walls.   Systemic  sequelae including skeletal muscle dysfunction (see below). Thus, the characteristic physiological effects include airflow limitation and  abnormal alveolar gas exchange, leading to cor pulmonale (pulmonary  vascular disease).  with a smoking history of more than 20 pack years (1 pack year  =  20 ciga- rettes per day for 1 year). It is supported by objective evidence of airflow   475  limitation (or obstruction), usually with spirometry, which does not return  to normal with treatment.   Patients are usually over the age of 35, have a risk factor and present   with one or more of exertional breathlessness, chronic cough, regular  sputum production, frequent winter ‘exacerbations/bronchitis’ or  wheeze.    Effort intolerance, ankle swelling and fatigue also occur.   Chest pain and haemoptysis are uncommon and an alternative diagno-  sis should be looked for.    Extrapulmonary features occur, e.g. osteoporosis, depression and   metabolic problems leading to weight loss, loss of muscle mass and  weakness.  In mild COPD,  signs are absent, except for a wheeze.  In more severe COPD,  tachypnoea, prolonged expiration, pursed lip  breathing, use of accessory muscles and intercostal in-drawing on inspi- ration are seen. Hypercapnic patients will be vasodilated with a bound- ing pulse and a coarse flapping tremor of the outstretched hands. Severe  hypercapnia causes confusion and progressive drowsiness. Clubbing is  not  a sign of COPD and should alert the physician to the possibility of  bronchiectasis or lung cancer.   In advanced COPD,  patients develop cor pulmonale.  disease secondary to disease of the lung. It occurs in hypoxic patients with  COPD. Pulmonary hypertension can be present for years without causing  symptoms. Cor pulmonale is enlargement of the right ventricle secondary to  increased afterload due to primary lung disease in patients who have no  other cause of ventricular dysfunction. Symptoms include worsening exer- tional dyspnoea, fatigue and chest pain. On examination JVP is raised and  there is a right ventricular parasternal heave, a loud pulmonary compo- nent of the second heart sound, fluid retention and peripheral oedema.  airflow obstruction on spirometry.  Spirometry  shows evidence of airflow obstruction, with a reduced  forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) of  <  80%, a reduced FEV1to forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio of  <  70% and a reduced peak expira- tory flow rate (PEFR). In COPD reversibility is less than in asthmatic  patients (usually a change in FEV1 of  <  15%). Clinically significant  COPD is not present if the FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio return to normal  following treatment. FEV1 determines severity (Table 13.1) and can also  be used to monitor the course of the disease and response to therapy.  In addition, FEV1 can be used to test reversibility and is a predictor of  mortality. Five-year survival is about 50% when FEV1 falls to  <  1 L.  Serial home PEF measurements  can be useful to exclude asthma.  Reversibility to bronchodilators is also helpful in distinguishing patients  who have asthma and to aid further management.  Haemoglobin level and packed cell volume (PCV)  can be elevated as  a result of persistent hypoxaemia causing secondary polycythaemia.   Arterial blood gases (ABGs)  determine the degree of hypoxia and  hypercapnia. A baseline should always be taken for assessment of  patients in acute exacerbations and will help in assessing the need for  long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT).   Pulse oximetry  measures oxyhaemoglobin concentration but remember  that it does  not  give information about the CO2 ( P aCO2 or arterial carbon  dioxide tension) and hence alveolar ventilation.   CXR  can be normal or show hyper-expanded lung fields with low flat-  tened diaphragms and the presence of bullae.   Sputum culture  is usually unnecessary.  ECG  is not necessary in routine assessment of COPD but can show  advanced cor pulmonale; it is insensitive.   Alpha1-antitrypsin level and phenotype  may be helpful (young non- smokers, lower lobe emphysema, a family history of chest problems).  The normal range for  α1-antitrypsin is 2–4 g/L.  symptomatic relief and the prevention of exacerbations and complications.  No existing medication has been shown to  modify decline  in lung  function.  cessation programme has been shown to reduce the age-related decline in  FEV1, significantly in middle-aged smokers with mild airways obstruction,  and also lead to a decrease in cardiovascular and lung cancer mortality.  Smokers should be told to stop and an agreed target date set.  Nicotine  replacement therapy (NRT ) or  bupropion  is given, unless contraindicated,  in addition to a support programme to improve the chances of success.  NRT  aims to replace nicotine and thus reduce the craving for a cigarette.  Chewing gum  2 mg and 4 mg,  transdermal patches  16-hour and  24-hour in varying doses,  nasal spray  0.5 mg per spray, inhalational  10 mg  inhalation cartridge ,  sublingual tablets  2 mg and  lozenges  1, 2  and 4 mg are available. Nicotine patches should be limited to 3 months’  usage. NRT should be stopped if the patient restarts smoking.  Common  side-effects  are localized reactions, such as skin irritation with patches,  and minor sleep disturbances.  Contradictions  include vascular disease  and allergy to the drug; NRT should not be used in pregnancy or breast  feeding.   Bupropion  sustained release is a weak, selective inhibitor of the neuro-  exact mechanism by which it aids smoking cessation is unclear. The  dose is 150 mg once a day for 1 week prior to stopping smoking and  then 300 mg a day for a further 6–8 weeks, provided the patient abstains  from further cigarettes.  Side-effects  include seizures in about 1 in 1000  patients. Avoid in patients with a previous history of seizures, or a  concomitant administration of other medication that lowers the seizure  threshold. Other side-effects include hypersensitivity reactions (0.1%),  insomnia and dry mouth.   Combination therapy  with NRT or bupropion has so far shown no  significant benefit.   Varenicline  is an oral partial agonist on the  α4β2 subtype of nicotinic  acetylcholine receptor. A 12-week course increases the chances of stop- ping smoking four-fold; its main side-effect is nausea but severe depres- sion has been recorded.  the long-term relief of symptoms in patients with an FEV1<  80%  predicted.   remains the mainstay of treatment, despite the fact that  COPD is characterized by irreversible airway obstruction. It causes relaxa- tion of the smooth muscle and thus decreases airway resistance. Patients  with mild COPD feel less breathless.  Inhaler technique.  Patients should be taught a good technique for using  inhalers; this should be rechecked regularly. COPD patients may have  problems in effective coordination and find it hard to use simple  metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) . This can be improved by offering dif- ferent types of inhaler and/or a spacer.   Beta2-adrenoceptor agonists  act directly on the smooth muscle, have  a relatively rapid onset of action and can therefore be used for sympto- matic relief and prior to exercise. They can be used on an ‘as required’  or a ‘regular’ basis. • Short-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists. Salbutamol  is usually   given by pressurized aerosol inhalation 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs) up  to 4–6 times a day.  Terbutaline  is prescribed at a dose of 250–500 mcg  (1–2 puffs) up to 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists.  These are used in more  severe airway limitation (moderate and severe COPD). They include  salmeterol  50–100 mcg (2–4 puffs) twice a day and  formoterol  12 mcg  inhaled twice a day (depending on formulation and severity). Side-effects  include fine tremor, nervous tension, tachycardia, arrhyth- mias and hypokalaemia.  Antimuscarinic agents  are used for achieving greater and more pro-  longed bronchodilatation. • Short-acting antimuscarinics.  These cause bronchodilatation by  blocking the bronchoconstrictor effects of cholinergic nerves. They  have a longer onset of action and a more prolonged and greater  bronchodilatory effect than  β2 agonists, and are associated with less  toxicity.  Ipratropium bromide  is given by aerosol inhalation at a  dose of 20–40 mcg 3–4 times a day or by nebulized solution 250– 500 mcg 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting antimuscarinics.  Inhaled  tiotropium  18 mcg once daily   improves the duration of bronchodilatation and the fre quency of  acute exacerbations in patients with moderate to severe COPD. Side-effects  include dry mouth, nausea, constipation, bladder outlet  obstruction, exacerbation of acute-angle glaucoma and headache. In  mild disease  short-acting  β2 agonists or short-acting antimuscarinic  bronchodilators should be prescribed as required. Their effects are   478  additive and once airflow becomes more severe a regular antimuscarinic  can be added to a  β  agonist. Some patients prefer to use just one combined  inhaler  ipratropium bromide 20 mcg and salbutamol 100 mcg /metered  dose 2 puffs 4 times a day. Patients who remain symptomatic despite being treated with a combi-  nation of two short-acting bronchodilators or patients who have two or  more exacerbations a year should be prescribed a long-acting bronchodila- tor and an inhaled corticosteroid should be added (see below). Objective evidence of improvement in peak flow or FEV1 may be small  and the decision on whether to continue or stop therapy should be based  on the patient’s reported symptoms.  shortness of breath that interferes with daily activities. Inhaled corticoster- oids are usually reserved for stable COPD, but if already prescribed,  should be continued throughout exacerbations.  Oral corticosteroids  The use of corticosteroids in patients with COPD  remains contentious but a subgroup of patients respond to these drugs  with improvement of lung function. Therefore in symptomatic patients  a trial of  prednisolone  of 30 mg a day for 2 weeks can be given, with  spirometry measurements before and after the treatment period. If  patients show a response (FEV1 increases  >  15%), prednisolone should  be stopped and an inhaled steroid such as  beclometasone  400 mcg  twice daily started. Regular oral corticosteroids are not recommended,  but in advanced COPD, patients may require a maintenance dose when  steroids cannot be withdrawn after an exacerbation.   Inhaled corticosteroids.  An inhaled corticosteroid should be given, in  addition to a bronchodilator, in patients with an FEV1<  50% or with  two or more exacerbations a year requiring treatment with antibiotics  or oral corticosteroids. In addition, a trial of high-dose inhaled cortico- steroid for 3 weeks in patients with moderate airflow obstruction can  distinguish those patients who actually have a diagnosis of asthma and  not COPD. There are a number of  different formulations and inhalers available. The dose varies from 200 mcg to 800 mcg a day.  There are many  side-effects  associated with corticosteroids (see Box 15.2,  p. 585). Inhaled steroids cause considerably fewer systemic side-effects,  although at high doses adverse effects have been reported.  β2 receptor gene, increasing receptor numbers  and decreasing desensitization, whilst long-acting  β2 agonists may amplify  the anti-inflammatory effects of corticosteroids.   Corticosteroids are used in combination with  β2 agonists for mainte-  nance therapy in moderate to severe COPD, as they provide synergistic  benefit for patients. They produce better control of symptoms, improved  lung function and reduced exacerbation rates, with no greater risk of  side-effects.    Combinations include  fluticasone propionate  50–500 mcg per metered   dose and  salmeterol  25–50 mcg per metered dose, or  budesonide  100– 400 mcg per metered dose and  formoterol  6–12 mcg per metered dose.  Patients usually require 1–2 puffs twice a day.  479   Other combinations  of treatment can be used if monotherapy does not  control symptoms: • β2 agonists and antimuscarinics • β2 agonists and oral theophylline •  antimuscarinics and oral theophylline.  Clinical effectiveness should be judged by improvements in symptoms,  activities of daily living, exercise capacity and lung function. If there is no  benefit after 4 weeks, therapy should be discontinued.  Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT)  benefits patients with progressive  COPD who are hypoxic with a  P aO2<  8 kPa (59 mmHg)  and  signs of cor  pulmonale, such as peripheral oedema. These patients have a poor  prognosis and, if left untreated, 5-year survival is  <  50%.    LTOT can also be used for exercise-induced hypoxia and to relieve acute   shortness of breath. Oxygen therapy should always be used in a control- led manner, as some patients’ respiratory drive depends on their degree  of hypoxia (p. 483).   Continuous administration  of oxygen is given at 2 L/min, maintaining   oxygen saturations  >  90% for more than 15 hours a day. A fall in pul- monary artery pressure was achieved if oxygen was given for  >  15  hours, but substantial improvements in mortality were achieved only if  oxygen was administered for 19 hours daily. The following patients should be assessed for oxygen therapy:   those with severe airflow obstruction (FEV1<  30% predicted) or moder-  ate airflow obstruction (30–49% predicted)    cyanotic patients, polycythaemic patients and those with peripheral   oedema, signs of right-sided heart failure, or oxygen saturations  <  92%  when breathing air. Patients fulfil the  criteria for LTOT  when they have:   a  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (55 mmHg) when stable and breathing air; measure-  ments should be taken on two occasions at least 3 weeks apart after  appropriate bronchodilator therapy    a  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa (55–59 mmHg) with polycythaemia, nocturnal hypox-  aemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary hypertension    a carboxyhaemoglobin of  <  3% (i.e. patients who have stopped smoking). Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen are shown in Box 13.2. Patients requiring LTOT will need an oxygen concentrator and educa-  tion regarding its use. They should use the oxygen for at least 15 hours per  day or, if possible, 20 hours per day. Once established, they should be  reviewed at least once a year by a practitioner familiar with LTOT. They  should be warned about the risks of explosion and fire if they continue to  smoke. Short-burst oxygen should be reserved for patients with episodes  of severe breathlessness that is not relieved by other treatment. An  oxygen alert card  stating the oxygen saturation should be given to  all patients who have had hypercapnic respiratory failure.  tors are small and can be used at home. Patients should be considered for   Box 13.2   Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen (Royal College of  Physicians, 1999)  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2<  7.3 kPa   when breathing air during a period of clinical stability  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in   the presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal  hypoxaemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary  hypertension  •  Severe chronic asthma with  P aCO2<  7.3 kPa or persistent   disabling breathlessness  •  Diffuse lung disease with  P aO2<  8 kPa and in patients with   P aO2>  8 kPa with disabling dyspnoea  •  Cystic fibrosis when  P aO2<  7.3 kPa or if  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in the   presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal hypoxaemia,  pulmonary hypertension or peripheral oedema  •  Pulmonary hypertension without parenchymal lung involvement   when  P aO2<  8 kPa  •  Neuromuscular or skeletal disorders, after specialist   assessment  •  Obstructive sleep apnoea despite continuous positive airways   pressure therapy, after specialist assessment  •  Pulmonary malignancy or other terminal disease with disabling   dyspnoea  •  Heart failure with daytime  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (on air) or with   nocturnal hypoxaemia  home NIV if, despite maximal treatment, they have hypercapnic respira- tory failure and have required ventilatory support during an exacerbation,  or are acidotic or hypercapnic on LTOT.  daily.  Oral mucolytic drugs.  Mucolytics increase the expectoration of sputum  by reducing its viscosity. Regular use of mucolytics for at least 2 months  can reduce the number of exacerbations of COPD and days of illness.  They should be used in patients with a chronic productive cough but  only continued if there is continual symptomatic improvement. • Carbocisteine  2.25 g a day in divided doses, then 1.5 g daily in   divided doses.  Erdosteine  300 mg twice daily is also used.  • Mecysteine hydrochloride  200 mg 4 times a day for 2 days, followed   by 200 mg 3 times a day for 6 weeks, then 200 mg twice daily.  Anti-oxidants. N-acetylcysteine  has both anti-oxidant and mucolytic  properties, and has been shown to reduce frequency of exacerbations.  However, it and other anti-oxidants, such as  α -tocopherol and  β -carotene  supplements, are currently not recommended.   Anti-tussives.  Regular use of anti-tussive medication is not recom-  mended in COPD, as there is insufficient evidence for its benefit, and  although cough is a problematic symptom, it has a protective role.    Antibiotics  •  There is no evidence for the use of prophylactic antibiotics. •  Give antibiotics in acute exacerbations, as they shorten exacerbations   and may prevent hospital admission.  •  Give the patient a supply of antibiotics to keep at home, to start when   sputum turns yellow or green.  • Amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily is still effective, although resistance   to  H. influenzae  occurs in 10–20%. Resistance is less frequent to  cefaclor  500 mg 8-hourly or  cefixime  400 mg once daily;  co-amoxiclav is an alternative. Long-term treatment with antibiotics was thought to be of little value  but eradication of infection and keeping the lower respiratory tract free  of bacteria may help prevent deterioration in lung function.    Vaccination/antiviral therapy  • Polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine  usually pro-  vides lifelong immunity after a single dose.  • Annual influenza vaccination  should be given, unless patients have  a hypersensitivity to eggs.  • Antiviral agents  include  zanamivir  inhalation of 10 mg twice daily   for 5 days and  oseltamivir  75 mg 12-hourly for 5 days. They are  recommended for the treatment of ‘at-risk’ adults who can start  therapy within 48 hours of presenting with an influenza-like illness.  For  side-effects , see p. 91.   Antidepressants.  These may be helpful in COPD, as mood disturbances  such as anxiety and depression are common.   Alpha1-protease inhibitor augmentation therapy.  Young patients with  severe hereditary  α1-antitrypsin deficiency with serum levels  <  0.31 g/L  and abnormal lung function are candidates for  α1-antitrypsin replace- ment therapy. There is limited evidence for its benefit in modifying the  disease in the long term.  Physiotherapy.  Physiotherapy is helpful for patients with excessive  sputum. Patients should be encouraged to cough to remove sputum and  taught the active cycle of breathing techniques and how to use positive  expiratory pressure masks.   Nutrition.  Weight loss is common in patients with COPD and there is  an association between low BMI and increased mortality. Patients with  a low BMI should be referred for dietary advice and nutritional supple- ments. Overweight patients should also be offered dietary advice, as  obesity puts additional strain on the cardio-respiratory system.  Pulmonary rehabilitation.  Patients with moderate to severe COPD on  optimal medical treatment should be put on a pulmonary rehabilitation  programme. The aim is to prevent or reverse the deconditioning that  occurs in patients with COPD due to lack of exercise and immobility  caused by symptoms. The rehabilitation programme is provided by a  multi-disciplinary team and includes physical training, disease educa- tion, nutritional advice, and psychological, social and behavioural  intervention.  mortality, and patients must be carefully selected and be receiving optimal  medical management prior to surgery. Bullectomy, lung volume reduction  surgery and lung transplantation are used in severe disease.  symptoms from his or her usual stable state that is beyond normal day-to- day variations, and is acute in onset’. Exacerbations of COPD are among the commonest acute respiratory  problems presenting to primary or secondary care.   They are usually caused by infection, although only 50% of patients will   have a positive sputum culture. The commonest organisms are  H. influ- enzae ,  Strep. pneumoniae  and  Moraxella catarrhalis .    Viruses, including rhinovirus, influenza (including H1N1 swine flu   variant), coronavirus, adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus,  account for up to 30% of cases.    Pollutants may also precipitate an exacerbation.   Some patients with mild exacerbations can be treated at home, but   factors such as acute confusion, a decreased level of consciousness,  significant co-morbidities, severe breathlessness and acidosis require  hospital admission .  CXR  for signs of infection or other pathologies, e.g. pneumothorax or  pulmonary oedema.   Baseline ABGs  on room air (or a known inspired oxygen concentration)  to look for hypoxia or hypercapnia.   Purulent sputum  for culture.  ECG  to look for a cardiac cause for the deterioration.  Blood cultures  if the patient is pyrexial.  Routine bloods  for FBC and U&E.  care includes prophylaxis against deep vein thrombosis, optimizing fluid  status and ensuring adequate nutrition.  Controlled oxygen.  A fixed performance mask can deliver 24%, 28%  and 35% oxygen. It is given to correct hypoxia and maintain oxygen  saturations  >  90%. In a minority of patients respiratory drive is hypoxic  and high oxygen concentrations can result in increasing levels of carbon  dioxide, decreasing consciousness, and respiratory acidosis and arrest.  Pulse oximetry should always be available to measure oxygen satura- tions. An ABG is performed on arrival in hospital to monitor CO2 levels.  Oxygen concentrations should never be reduced in patients who are  hypoxic, even if CO2 levels are high.   Bronchodilators (p. 478).  There is no benefit in delivering bronchodila-  Bronchodilators are, however, given via a  nebulizer  with a face mask  or mouth piece delivering higher doses if patients are too breathless to  coordinate the use of an inhaler/spacer. If the patient is hypercapnic,  the nebulizer should be driven with air and not oxygen. Oxygen can be  given at the same time via nasal cannulae.   Inhaled  β2 short-acting adrenergic agonists (p. 478).  The frequency  and dose of inhaled  β2-agonists can be increased in an acute exacerba- tion. They reach peak activity between 10 and 30 mins, and remain  effective for about 4–6 hours.  Salbutamol  (via inhaler or nebulizer) is  the most commonly used.  Nebulizers  are given at a dose of 2.5–5 mg,  usually 4 times daily, although this can be increased provided side- effects are tolerated. Currently, there is no evidence to support the use  of IV  β2-agonists in acute exacerbations of COPD.   Inhaled short-acting antimuscarinics.  These agents are often used  in  combination with inhaled  β2-agonists  in acute exacerbations of COPD  and are associated with fewer side-effects. They have a less rapid onset  of action but a longer duration of action. They can be delivered via an  inhaler as  ipratropium bromide  20–40 mcg, or via a nebulizer  ipratro- pium bromide  500 mcg,  salbutamol  2.5 mg/2.5 mL vial, 1 vial 4 times  a day.   Systemic corticosteroids.  These drugs reduce the increased airway  inflammation in patients with acute exacerbations of COPD. Short  courses of corticosteroids have been shown to reduce FEV1, improve  hypoxia and shorten duration of hospital stay compared to placebo. All  patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation should receive  a course of  oral corticosteroids  30 mg for 7–14 days, in addition to other  therapies, provided there are no contraindications. The first dose of  corticosteroids can be given intravenously as  hydrocortisone  or  methyl- prednisolone . If patients do receive a prolonged course of corticoster- oids, the dose should be gradually tapered down.   Antibiotics (p. 482).  There is some evidence for a small but significant  benefit with antibiotics in acute exacerbations of COPD, especially in  those with more severe disease .  The use of antibiotics is recommended  in patients with a history of increased purulence or production of  sputum or in those with consolidation on CXR or clinical signs of pneu- monia. Initially, treatment is empirical, with an  aminopenicillin , a  mac- rolide  or a  tetracycline , and then changed when culture results and  sensitivities become available. Antibiotic use should be guided by local  policy. Commonly used antibiotics include  amoxicillin  250–500 mg 3  times daily (15% of  Haemophilus  strains may be resistant),  doxycycline 200 mg then 100 mg daily, or  erythromycin  250–500 mg every 6 hours  or 0.5–1 g every 12 hours.  Ampicillin  can be used instead of  amoxicillin.   Methylxanthines.  The use of methylxanthines such as  theophylline (p. 501) remains controversial, as there is currently no clear evidence of  benefit in acute exacerbations of COPD. IV theophylline should only be  used in patients refractory to nebulized bronchodilators, and levels  should be monitored within 24 hours of treatment and regularly after  this period. Patients already taking oral methylxanthines should con- tinue on this medication during an exacerbation and should  not  receive  additional IV methylxanthines. IV methylxanthines are usually pre- scribed as  aminophylline loading dose  5 mg/kg (250–500 mg) over at  least 20 mins, followed by 0.5 mg/kg/hour over 24 hours adjusted  according to plasma levels. Patients should be closely monitored  throughout.   Respiratory stimulants.  These (e.g.  Doxapram  1.5–4.0 mg/min) are   inappropriate.  Acute exacerbation of COPD  Intercostal drainage  Pneumothorax  CXR  Sit up Stop sedatives Bronchodilators (nebulized or IV) + corticosteroids  Pneumonia  Antibiotics  Yellow/ green sputum  Physiotherapy  Blood gases  P2 < 8 kPa P2 < 7 kPa  P2 < 8 kPa P2 > 7 kPa  Continuous controlled oxygen therapy (Venturi mask 24%)  P2 increased P2 rising  P2 increased P2 steady  Nurses, physiotherapists and relatives encourage deep breathing  P2 rising pH  ≤  7.25–7.35  Venturi mask 28% or 35% O2 to achieve saturtions 88-92%  P2 still rising and/or pH < 7.25  NIV with BiPAP (if no BiPAP give IV doxapram 1.5–4mg/min)  P2steady  P2rising  Continue  Transfer to HDU/ICU for continuation of NIV and possible invasive ventilation  Return to 24% O2 if sats not < 88%   Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) This is the treatment of choice in patients with exacerbations of COPD  who, despite maximal medical therapy and controlled oxygen therapy,  have a persistent respiratory acidosis (pH 7.25–7.35, [H + ] 45–56 nmol/L).  ventilatory support (BiPAP). Continuous positive airway pressure    (CPAP, p. 542) is also used. NIV can avoid the need for endotracheal  intubation.   Patients with pH  <  7.25 respond less well to NIV and should be referred  directly for tracheal intubation or a trial of NIV in an intensive care  setting.    NIV results in a reduced need for endotracheal intubation and thus the   associated complications. There is improved acidaemia, a reduction in  mortality and a shortening of hospital stay. NIV allows better commu- nication, and nutrition and physiotherapy to continue as normal.   Contraindications  to NIV include impaired consciousness, recent facial  or upper airway surgery, facial abnormalities such as burns or trauma,  undrained pneumothorax, hypoxaemia, cardiovascular instability, ina- bility to protect the airway, recent gastrointestinal surgery, vomiting  and copious respiratory secretions.   Endotracheal intubation Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are used in patients  with acidaemia or with persistent or worsening hypoxia despite NIV, and  when NIV is contraindicated.  Mortality  in patients with COPD who are intubated for an exacerbation  is about 20%.    Assessment for suitability for intubation and ventilation includes func-  tional status, requirement for oxygen when stable, BMI, co-morbidities,  previous admissions to the ICU, FEV1 and age. Weaning from a ventila- tor can be difficult and NIV can be used post extubation to shorten  weaning time.   Other therapies Although there is no proven benefit, chest physiotherapy, particularly with  the use of positive expiratory pressure masks, can be helpful in patients  with copious secretions. Currently, there is no evidence showing benefit  for the use of  heliox  (helium and oxygen mixture) in patients with exac- erbations of COPD.  airflow limitation, i.e. a fall in FEV1. A predictive index (BODE  = b ody  mass index, degree of airflow  o bstruction,  d yspnoea and  e xercise capacity)  has recently been modified, improving prediction of outcome, and is  shown in Table 13.2. A patient with a BODE index of 0–2 has a mortality  rate of 10% and with 7–10 it rises to 80% at 4 years. A simpler index using  a ge,  d yspnoea and airflow  o bstruction (ADO) gives a similar prognosis.   Prior to discharge patients should have adequate and stable gas   exchange (oxygen saturations and ABGs) on optimal maintenance bron- chodilator therapy.    They should understand what medication to take, including oxygen   therapy if required.    Spirometry should be measured prior to discharge as a baseline for   further measurements.    A follow-up appointment should be made for 4–6 weeks, especially   for those with respiratory failure who may require assessment for  LTOT.    Ensure that there is adequate support at home.  486  0 points 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 7 points 9 points  Table 13.2   Assignment of points for the updated BODE index  FEV1 (% predicted) ≥  65% ≥  36–64% ≤  35% – – – –  BMI (kg/m2) >  21 ≤  21 – – – – –  Dyspnoea (MRC scale) 0–1 2 3 4 – – –  6-min walk distance (m) ≥  350 – – – ≥  250–349 ≥  150–249 <  150  487    Obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS) affects   1–2% of the population and is commonly seen in overweight, middle- aged men.    It is a syndrome caused by abnormal size and/or collapsibility of the   pharynx during sleep, which disrupts sleep and causes symptoms.    During sleep, activity of the respiratory muscles is reduced and in   OSAHS this results in collapse of the upper airways intermittently and  repeatedly. If there is complete collapse, there is total obstruction of   the airway and no respiratory flow (apnoea); partial collapse may   cause snoring; and if there is critical collapse, there is reduced flow  (hypopnoea).    Apnoea results in hypoxia and increasingly strenuous respiratory   efforts until the patient overcomes the resistance and there is termina- tion of the apnoea and resumption of breathing.    The patient wakes up as a result of the combination of this increased   respiratory effort and central hypoxic stimulation. Patients may wake  up hundreds of times per night, resulting in reduced rapid eye move- ment (REM) sleep and sleep deprivation. Patients are usually unaware  of these night-time awakenings. Factors predisposing to OSAH include increasing age, male gender,  obesity, sedative drugs, smoking and alcohol consumption.  Differential diagnosis. Central sleep apnoea  is due to impairment of  central ventilatory control secondary to brainstem pathology. It occurs  at the onset of sleep and is seen in non-obese patients with no history  of snoring.  SymptomsThese include excessive daytime somnolence (90%), impaired concentra- tion and loud snoring (95%). Patients may fall asleep at work, whilst  driving or in mid-conversation. If patients present with typical symptoms, they should be asked to  complete an  Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) . The maximum score is 24,  normal range is  <  11, mild daytime sleepiness 11–14, moderate subjective  daytime sleepiness 15–18 and severe daytime sleepiness  >  18. Patients and  their partners should fill out the Epworth Sleepiness Scale independently,  as patients often under-estimate the severity of their symptoms because  onset is often gradual and there may be concerns over driving.  and BP. Mandible size should be noted. There should be a full examination  of the nose, oral cavity and upper airways, and a complete respiratory,  cardiovascular and neurological assessment.  and lipid abnormalities, and there is increasing evidence of an association  with increased cerebrovascular events. Patients with OSAHS may decom- pensate with hypercapnic respiratory failure or cor pulmonale, especially  if there is co-existent COPD.  suggestive of OSAHS with sleepiness in dangerous situations, such as  driving or operating hazardous equipment, even if the ESS is normal; and  those with likely OSAHS and COPD should be referred to a specialist sleep  centre.  Sleep studiesThe primary aims of sleep studies are to assess sleep fragmentation, to  establish whether a respiratory problem is responsible and to decide if  upper airway obstruction is the primary cause.  Oximetry  is cheap and widely available. It can be used to measure the  number of oxygen desaturations per hour or the time spent below an  agreed  S pO2 level during the study. Oximetry has a role in initial assess- ment but limited sleep studies or polysomnography are usually required  for diagnosis of OSAHS.   Polysomnography  records sleep and breathing patterns simultane-  ously. Full polysomnography monitors sleep stage, oxygen saturation,  respiratory effort, airflow, thoraco-abdominal movement, snoring, ECG,  body position and limb movements. This is an expensive technique, as  the patient needs to spend the night in a sleep centre and a technician  must be available throughout. Full polysomnography is not necessary  for diagnosis in most cases.   Limited sleep studies  can measure thoraco-abdominal movement, oxi-  metry, flow and heart rate. The limited sleep studies can be performed  at home, although there is reduced sensitivity and specificity, compared  to full polysomnography.  tions and patient compliance. Management should consist firstly of correc- tion of treatable and potentially reversible factors.  Who to treat.  Patients who have a sleep study showing a  >  4% oxygen  saturation dip more than 10 times an hour should be referred for treat- ment. Treatment is also necessary in those with mild OSAHS who are  symptomatic or have complications.  ance of alcohol, sedatives and sleeping tablets. Some patients may benefit  from sleeping on their side. Keeping the nose as clear as possible, with the  use of nasal decongestants if required, may improve symptoms. Treatment of underlying conditions such as hypothyroidism may  greatly improve symptoms of OSAHS. The above measures may alleviate symptoms in patients who snore or  have mild OSAHS. However, in those with more severe disease, additional  treatment, as well as behavioural change, is likely to be required and  should not be delayed.  NIV  CPAP.  This involves wearing a tight-fitting mask during sleep,  which delivers pressure via air tubing from a flow generator in the   region of 5–10 mmHg. The pressure splints open the pharynx and  prevents collapse, allowing unobstructed breathing and an undis- turbed night. Nasal CPAP is currently the treatment of choice. There  are machines available that automatically ‘hunt’ the pressure  required to overcome the collapse of the airway. Supplemental  oxygen can be delivered via the machine if oxygen saturations are  low, such as in COPD patients. Treatment with CPAP improves  symptoms and may improve BP. Once patients are established on  CPAP, they are likely to require it for life. However, compliance is  poor because of the discomfort and noise. Other  side-effects  include  rhinitis, nasal congestion, nasal bridge abrasions, claustrophobia and  abdominal bloating.  • Intra-oral devices.  Mandibular advancement devices may be worn  at night; by holding the lower jaw forward, they increase the space  behind the tongue and thus pharyngeal volume. This improves  airflow. Alternatives include tongue-retaining devices, which hold  the tongue forward. These devices need to be made individually and  are useful in patients with mild OSAHS and for snorers.   Pharmacological treatment  • Supplementary oxygen  may benefit a small subset of patients, espe-  cially those living at altitude.  • Modafinil  200–400 mg daily (100 mg in the elderly) in the morning is   a wake-promoting drug that is a potential adjunctive therapy. There  are, however, ongoing debates regarding its efficacy.  reduce pharyngeal resistance during sleep.  Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty  involves resection of the uvula, redundant  retro-lingual soft tissue and palatine tonsillar tissue if present. The  outcome is difficult to predict and it is not uniformly successful.  Side- effects  include post-operative pain, changes in voice and nasal regurgi- tation of food. In addition, patients are more likely to have difficulty  with CPAP following surgery.   Tonsillectomy  may help patients with large tonsils.  Tracheostomy  is only used in patients with life-threatening apnoea in  whom all other treatments have failed. It works by bypassing the  obstruction. Mandibular advancement, suprahyoid tensing, weight reduction surgery  and nasal surgery have been used but there is insufficient evidence to  recommend these treatments.  with continued driving, even if the diagnosis is clinically suspected but  not yet formally diagnosed. Once a diagnosis is made, patients must be  told verbally and in writing that it is their responsibility to inform the  authorities.  incidence of 1 in 2500 and a calculated carrier frequency of 1 in 25 in the  UK. It is more common in the Caucasian population.   CF is caused by a genetic mutation in the cystic fibrosis gene, which   codes for a protein known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regula- tor (CFTR) protein. The gene is situated on the long arm of chromosome  7 (7q21.3 → 7q22.1).    The commonest mutation in the European population is  δ F508, which  is found in about 70% of affected cases and causes defective synthesis,  defective maturation, blocked activation or defective function of the  CFTR protein.   The CFTR protein is essential for regulation and transport of electrolytes   across the epithelial cell and intracellular membranes. In the presence  of a mutant CFTR protein, chloride channels in the epithelial cells fail  to open in response to elevated cyclic adenosine monophosphate  (cAMP), leading to a decreased excretion of chloride ions and an  increased reabsorption of sodium. As a result, less water is secreted into  the airways, making the secretions more tenacious and viscous, more  difficult to expectorate, and prone to infection. There is a continuous  cycle of infection and inflammation, resulting in severe airway damage,  bronchiectasis and loss of respiratory function.    In the sweat ducts a similar process results in increased concentrations   of sweat sodium and chloride, which is useful for diagnosis. Other  organs involved include the pancreas, liver, biliary tree and gut.  RespiratoryThe commonest presentation is with recurrent respiratory infections. A  cough productive of purulent sputum in childhood eventually results in  bronchiectasis and chronic airway obstruction. Increased breathlessness  occurs as the disease develops. Other pulmonary complications include  haemoptysis, pneumothorax and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Eventually, cor pulmonale and respiratory failure develop. Nasal polyps  and purulent sinusitis occur.  Physical signs  include clubbing, cyanosis,  wheeze and scattered coarse crackles.  Infection  is a major problem. The bacteria are described in the treatment  section. Colonization with  Burkholderia cepacia  is an increasing problem.  It is multi-resistant and is spread by patient-to-patient contact, resulting  in clinic segregation and the end of ‘CF holidays’.    Clinically, one-third of patients have no change in symptoms or lung   function, in one-third there is deterioration of lung function, and in  one-third there is rapid deterioration resulting in death, even in   patients with previous mild disease. The latter is known as ‘cepacia  syndrome’.   Viral infections  also occur.  in malabsorption of fat and protein, and causing steatorrhoea and malnu- trition. Infants and children may present with failure to thrive, diarrhoea  or acute pancreatitis. Bowel obstruction secondary to meconium ileus  (10%) can occur soon after birth; if it occurs later in life, it is known as  ‘meconium ileus equivalent’ or ‘distal intestinal obstructive syndrome’   (DIOS). These patients present with volvulus or rectal prolapse. Biliary  obstruction may result in cholecystitis, while chronic liver disease   and cirrhosis can lead to portal hypertension, varices and splenomegaly.  There is an increased prevalence of gallstones (especially cholesterol),  reflux oesophagitis, peptic ulceration and gastrointestinal malignancy   in CF.  diabetes mellitus in about 11% of adult patients with CF. Diabetic ketoaci- dosis is rare. Male patients are infertile as a result of failure of the   vas deferens and epididymis to develop. Female patients are able to con- ceive but their fertility may be reduced secondary to thickened cervical  mucus.  retardation, demineralization and osteoarthropathy may occur. Patients on  long-term steroids may develop osteoporosis (p. 585).  Positive family history.  Sweat test.  This is the gold standard test for diagnosis of CF and must  be performed in an experienced laboratory. Sweat is collected with  pilocarpine iontophoresis; chloride levels with CF are  >  60 mmol/L. The  test can be repeated the day after receiving fludrocortisone 3 mg/m2 for  2 days, when the sweat electrolyte concentration fails to suppress into  the normal range in CF patients.   Nasal potential difference.  Normal values are  − 10 to  − 30 mV; in CF   they are  − 34 to  − 60 mV. The test is performed in specialist centres.   Genotyping.  The diagnosis can be confirmed if two abnormal mutations  (see above) are found.   Radiology.  A CXR or CT showing enlarged lung volumes and evidence  of bronchiectasis supports a diagnosis of CF.   Pancreatic insufficiency.  This is demonstrated by a low stool elastase,  abnormal pancreatic stimulation tests or fat malabsorption.  talization, enhance quality of life, prevent complications (particularly those  associated with treatment) and improve mortality.  Management.  Management requires a multi-disciplinary team and is  best provided in centres that specialize in CF.   Clinic visits.  Spirometry, blood tests (including vitamins and  Aspergillus precipitins), CXR and a physiotherapy and dietician review should be  carried out.  Respiratory management.  The aim of respiratory therapy is to decrease  the number and pathogenicity of the infecting organism and suppress  the lung’s hyper-responsive immune system. This can be achieved with  antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, bronchodilators and airway clear- ance techniques. There is no good clinical evidence for the use of  oxygen . In hypoxic patients, oxygen may delay or prevent the complica- tions of chronic hypoxia, as it does in COPD. Oxygen may also be used  during exercise.   guide antibiotic therapy. There  is no overall consensus on the use of prophylactic antibiotics and duration  of treatment.  Acute respiratory exacerbations.  IV antibiotics may be required if  there is bacterial resistance to all orally administered antibiotics and if  oral antibiotics fail to resolve symptoms. FEV1 and CRP can be used to  monitor response to therapy. • Staph. aureus.  Antibiotics (p. 77) such as continuous twice-daily oral  flucloxacillin  are usually prescribed if there is evidence of chronic  colonization. Continuous prophylactic antibiotics are used in patients  with frequent recurrent exacerbations. Despite prophylaxis, isolates  of  Staph. aureus  require high-dose  flucloxacillin  and an additional  antibiotic such as  sodium fusidate ,  azithromycin/erythromycin ,  clindamycin  or  rifampicin . Patients with severe exacerbations  should receive a second-generation  cephalosporin , an  aminoglyco- side  or  vancomycin  for at least 10–14 days.  • H. influenzae.  All isolates should be regarded as pathogenic. A  2-week course of a  macrolide  or  ampicillin  should usually treat  H .  influenzae , although resistance is common. Persistent infection can be  treated with  cefuroxime ,  cefotaxime  or  ceftazidime , which should  be continued until there is a sustained improvement in symptoms.  Patients with repeated isolates despite the above measures should  receive continuous oral antibiotics chosen according to sensitivities.  • Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  Once isolates are identified, aggressive  treatment must be initiated to delay chronic colonization. Strategies  for the  first isolation  of  P. aeruginosa  include: a)  oral ciprofloxacin  750 mg twice daily plus  nebulized colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily or  tobramycin / gentamicin  for 3 weeks; a  2-week course of IV antipseudomonal antibiotics is given, delay- ing the introduction of continuous antibiotic inhalation until sub- sequent positive cultures  or  b) combined use of  nebulized colomycin  plus  gentamicin  or  tobramycin , followed by intensive oral or IV antibiotic therapy.  The exact duration of therapy is controversial. Many prescribe a  3-month course. Management of  chronic infection  varies and includes a regular IV  antibiotic, irrespective of clinical state. Antimicrobial sensitivities  should be checked regularly for appropriate therapy. a) A  β -lactam  in combination with an  aminoglycoside  is recom-  mended as first-line in patients colonized with  P. aeruginosa .  Treatments should be given for 10–14 days but may need to be  continued for longer if the patient has persistent symptoms.  b)  Combination therapy  reduces antibiotic resistance and can  produce synergistic effects.  c)  Oral ciprofloxacin  can be used to treat mild exacerbation but is  not sufficient as monotherapy if there is concomitant  Staph. aureus infection.  Nebulized antipseudomonal antibiotic treatment , such as  tobramycin  300 mg nebulized 12-hourly for 28 days, alternating  with 28 days off, decreases  P .  aeruginosa  colonization. Many patients receive IV antibiotics at home, although a test dose  is usually given in hospital first.  Colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily   can cause bronchoconstriction, so a test dose should always be  given.   Long-term management. Azithromycin  500 mg orally results in   improved lung function and reduced exacerbations in patients   colonized with  P. aeruginosa . It has immunomodulatory and anti- inflammatory actions.  thickening due to inflammation and airway destruction. In addition, bron- chial hyper-reactivity is common. An improvement in FEV1 can be seen in  response to  β2 agonists such as  salbutamol  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily. Beta2agonists are also helpful prior to physiotherapy to facilitate clearance of  airway secretions. Long-acting  β2 agonists should be reserved for patients  who show clear benefit. Antimuscarinics, such as  inhaled ipratropium  bromide  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily, can also be used.  Corticosteroids.  Corticosteroids, e.g.  prednisolone  20 mg daily, can be   helpful in patients with recurrent wheeze. Alternate-day prednisolone  at a dose of 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg improves lung function over 24  months.  Side-effects  (p. 585) are many, so oral corticosteroids are not  recommended for routine use. They are useful in patients with allergic  bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (a common complication of CF) or  resistant bronchospasm and in patients who are profoundly ill and not  responding to maximal therapy. Osteopenia (p. 324) prophylaxis is  given.  Recombinant DNase.  DNase can be used to decrease sputum viscosity  by cleaving long strands of DNA into smaller ones. The usual dose is  dornase alfa  2500 U (2.5 mg) once daily via a jet nebulizer. The most  common  side-effect  is voice alteration; others include pharyngitis, lar- yngitis, conjunctivitis and chest pain.   Hypertonic saline.  Short-term studies have shown benefit from inhaled  hypertonic saline in concentrations of up to 7%. Beta2 agonists should  be inhaled prior to administration to limit bronchospasm.   N-acetylcysteine.  Although this can reduce sputum viscosity, there are  no RCTs that show benefit from its use.   NIV.  This may be used to improve symptoms in chronic respiratory  failure or as a bridge to lung transplantation. There is no evidence of a  survival benefit.   Lung transplantation.  In CF FEV1 can be used as a predictor of mortal-  ity. Once FEV1 is  <  30% predicted, mean survival is about 2 years and  patients should be referred to a specialized unit for assessment for lung  transplantation.  Haemoptysis,  which is usually mild, is common during exacerbations  but massive haemoptysis also occurs (see Box 13.1).  Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis  does not seem to affect  the clinical course of most patients without an allergic component. A  four-fold rise in total serum IgE, associated with IgG precipitins to  Aspergillus  and large fleeting changes on the CXR, favour allergic   bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Treatment  is with  corticosteroids .  The role of  itraconazole  remains controversial; however, some trans- plant centres recommend its use for the suppression of  Aspergillus  prior  to transplantation.   Pneumothorax  should be treated in the conventional way (p. 529).  Pleural stripping procedures to prevent recurrence may be a contrain- dication to subsequent lung transplantation.  Gastrointestinal disease Pancreatic enzyme supplements.  Pancreatic enzyme supplements  (enteric-coated microspheres and mini-tablets) contain lipase, protease  and amylase, and are taken with meals and snacks. Most adults take  4–8 tablets with main meals and 2–4 tablets with snacks; however, they  learn to adjust the dosage to achieve normal stools.  Pancreatin  is  available in a number of different strengths depending on the amount  of lipase in the preparation (e.g. 10 000, 25 000 and 40 000 units). Large- bowel strictures have been associated with these high-strength prepara- tions. Increasing the jejunal pH with a protein pump inhibitor or an H2antagonist can improve absorption.   Nutrition.  Patients should eat a normal healthy diet with a high calorie  intake. If they are unable to maintain an adequate weight, overnight  enteral feeding via a gastrostomy or naso-gastric tube can be used. Good  nutritional status (multi-vitamin preparation daily) is associated with  an improved prognosis and dietitians should be involved.  Vitamin  supplementation  is given with  fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K 10 mg daily. Iron-deficient patients should receive iron.   Distal intestinal obstruction (DIOS).  DIOS can be treated with a naso- gastric tube for decompression, IV fluids, correction of electrolytes, and  a combination of enemas and laxatives. Mineral oil and fleet enemas  may be used initially, as may oral laxatives such as  senna  and  lactulose .  In severe cases,  gastrograffin  or  N-acetylcysteine  is given orally or  naso-gastrically and as an enema. Surgery is sometimes required. As  DIOS is a recurring condition, the patient is given regular pancreatic  supplements and regular laxatives once symptoms are relieved.  Ursodeoxycholic acid  leads to clinical and biochemical improvement  but does not modify the course of chronic liver disease.   Gallstones  may require a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However,  anaesthesia is not without risk due to lung disease.  Diabetes.  Over 65% of patients have glucose intolerance by the age of  25. A blood glucose test should be performed 3-monthly. CF patients  with diabetes are encouraged to eat a high-calorie diet to maintain  growth and weight; insulin should be adjusted accordingly.   Fertility  Women.  Fertility is usually normal and the oral contraceptive pill  works in normal doses. For pregnancy, ideally the FEV1 should be  >  50% predicted and patients with an FEV1<  30% should be advised  against pregnancy. Partners should undergo DNA analysis prior to  conception. Teratogenic drugs should be avoided. Quinolones,  aminoglycosides and DNase should also be avoided.  • Men.  Male patients (98%) are infertile. They should receive seminal  analysis and their partner should have DNA analysis. In vitro ferti- lization using aspiration of sperm and intracytoplasmic gamete injec- tion can be successful.  Physiotherapy and airway clearance techniques.  Physiotherapy  should be performed at least twice a day and increased during exacerba- tions. A number of techniques and devices are employed including  postural drainage with percussion, active cycle of breathing techniques  and ‘huffing’. Mechanical devices are also used, such as flutter valves,  external oscillation thoracic jackets, and low-and high-pressure positive  expiratory pressure devices. Exercise should be used in combination  with physiotherapy, as it can help mobilize secretions and is part of  patients’ pulmonary rehabilitation.   Other therapies  • Sodium chloride tablets.  These may be required in hot weather due  to excess sodium chloride loss in sweat.  • Gene therapy.  This is currently unavailable, mainly due to problems  with vectors and delivery, but may be a treatment of the future.  • Vaccinations.  Patients should receive  pneumococcal polysaccharide  vaccine  0.5 mL IM and a yearly influenza vaccination.  However, the life expectancy of a newborn baby with CF today is about  45–50 years old without gene therapy.  Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways. It has three  characteristics: airway hyper-responsiveness to a wide range of stimuli,  reversible airflow limitation and inflammation of the bronchi. It is more  common in developed countries and the prevalence is increasing, particu- larly in the second decade of life when the disease affects 10–15% of the  population.  predisposition and environmental factors.  Extrinsic asthma  usually occurs  in atopic individuals and is associated with a positive skin prick reaction  to common inhalant allergens.  Late-onset asthma  in adults can be due to  sensitization to chemicals or biological products at work, aspirin intoler- ance or stimulation following  β -adrenoceptor blockers prescribed for  hypertension or angina.  Intrinsic asthma  is often described as ‘late-onset’,  as it usually starts in middle age. However, many patients developing  late-onset asthma have a positive skin prick test and on close questioning  actually had childhood symptoms compatible with asthma.  toms are intermittent, variable, worse at night and provoked by triggers  such as exercise. Cough variant asthma is cough without a wheeze. There   is often a family history of asthma or other atopic disease, such as eczema  or hay fever, and patients often know triggers that worsen symptoms.  nation. If wheeze is not present, the patient is asked to do a forced expira- tory manœuvre, which may provoke an audible wheeze. During an  exacerbation there may be tachypnoea, use of accessory muscles, wheeze  and pulsus paradoxus, but in a severe exacerbation the chest may be silent  (i.e. no airflow). Eczema, hives or allergic rhinitis may be present, indicat- ing other allergic disease. Nasal polyps may be found with or without an  associated history of aspirin sensitivity. Churg–Strauss syndrome  is a triad of asthma (with rhinitis), eosi-  nophilia and systemic vasculitis.  Respiratory function tests  can be normal (if there is no airflow limita-  tion) or show an obstructive airflow picture. There is a reduced FEV1and a proportionally smaller reduction in FVC, resulting in an FEV1:FVC  ratio of  <  75%. The PEFR is also reduced, but variability of PEFR and/ or FEV1 over time is diagnostic of asthma. •  PEFR meters are inexpensive and easy to use, and patients can there-  fore be taught to use them at home. Measurements of PEFR on waking  (prior to taking a bronchodilator) and before bed (after a bronchodila- tor) are useful in showing diurnal variation (see Fig. 13.2). An increase  of 20% in PEFR after inhalation of a short-acting  β -agonist, e.g.  400 mcg of  salbutamol  via a metered dose inhaler or after a trial or  oral steroids ( prednisolone  30 mg/day for 14 days), occurs in asthma.  Patients with severe chronic asthma may have little reversibility.  •  Patients should be encouraged to keep PEFR diaries. Those with   possible occupational asthma should record PEFR for at least 2 weeks  at work and 2 weeks off work.  • Exercise tests  show a reduction in PEF or FEV1 after 6 mins exercise.   Histamine or methacholine bronchial provocation tests  can be used  to indicate the presence of bronchial hyper-responsiveness.   Blood and sputum tests  may reveal increased eosinophils ( >  0.4  × 109/L) and total IgE in the peripheral blood, indicating an allergic ten- dency. Eosinophils may also be elevated in the sputum. Radioaller- gosorbent tests (RAST) measure minute quantities of IgE antibody in  the blood, which are specifically directed at particular antigens.  However, they are expensive and less sensitive than skin prick tests.   CXR  shows no characteristic features. It is done at diagnosis and always  in a severe exacerbation to exclude a pneumothorax.   Skin prick tests  should be performed in all cases to try to identify an  allergic cause. Allergen provocation tests are useful if occupational  asthma is suspected.   Exhaled nitric oxide measurement  indicates the degree of inflamma-  tion and is used as a test for the efficacy of corticosteroids.  and restoration of normal or best possible lung function with minimal  side-effects from medication, minimal absences from work or school, and   no limitation on physical activity. In children treatment is to enable a  normal growth pattern to occur.  Patient educationPatients and their families should be given information about the condi- tion. Clinicians should regularly check their patients’ inhaler technique  and should teach patients to use a PEFR metre. Patients should learn to  recognize signs of poor control, such as increasing need for short-acting  β -agonists, increasing breathlessness on exertion and waking at night with  symptoms.Primary prophylaxisThere are currently no recommendations on pre-natal or post-natal   allergen avoidance . Breast feeding should be encouraged, as there is  an association with reduced infant wheeze. Microbial exposure — the  ‘hygiene hypothesis’ — suggests that early exposure to microbial products  may prevent allergic disease such as asthma by switching off allergic  responses. There is currently no good evidence for this. Smoking during  pregnancy and after the child is born is associated with increased infant  wheeze.Secondary prophylaxis Allergen avoidance.  Measures should be taken to avoid causative aller-  gens, such as pets, mould and certain foods, as this may be helpful in  reducing the severity of disease. Measures to avoid house dust mites  have been shown to be ineffectual. In observational studies asthma  symptoms have improved after removal of a pet from the house.  Aspirin, other NSAIDs and  β -blockers should not be used.   Smoking.  Active and passive smoking should be avoided.  Weight reduction.  This is recommended in overweight asthma patients  to improve symptoms.   The mainstay of treatment for asthma involves the use of inhaled thera-  pies that are delivered as aerosols or powders directly into the lung;  thus first-pass metabolism is avoided and unwanted systemic effects are  minimized.    Asthma treatment involves a stepwise approach, enabling patients and   doctors to increase or decrease medication according to symptoms  (Table 13.4). This approach is based on the appreciation that asthma is  an inflammatory disease and that anti-inflammatory drugs should be  started, even in mild cases. Short-acting bronchodilator therapy should  be used to relieve breakthrough symptoms only. Increasing use of short- acting therapy implies deteriorating uncontrolled disease and the need  to step up therapy. Treatment is stepped down if control is good.  β2 agonist, such as a salbutamol inhaler 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs), as  required. Beta2 agonists should only be used for breakthrough symptoms  and are a useful guide to changes in severity of asthma. If a patient is using  two or more canisters of a  β2 agonist a month ( >  10–12 puffs a day), this  suggests poorly controlled disease. Beta2 agonists are very effective for  symptom relief but have no effect on underlying disease.  Table 13.3   Drugs used in asthma*  Drug Regimen  Inhaled drugs  Inhaled short-acting  β2 agonists  100 mcg per puff (metered dose) Take 2 puffs as required  Salbutamol (called albuterol  in USA) Aerosol and powder  preparations available  500 mcg per puff Up to 4 times daily as required  Terbutaline Powder and nebulized  solutions available  Inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist  12 mcg twice daily Up to 24 mcg twice daily  Formoterol Powder and aerosol  formulations available  Salmeterol 50 mcg (2 puffs or 1 blister) twice daily Up to 100 mcg (4 puffs or 2 blisters)  twice daily  Inhaled corticosteroids  Beclometasone dipropionate Dry (in blisters) and aerosol  preparations  50, 100 or 200 mcg per metered dose 100–400 mcg twice daily, rising to  0.4–1 mg twice daily  100, 200, 400 mcg per metered dose 100–800 mcg twice daily  Budesonide Powder or aerosol  preparations  Fluticasone propionate 50 mcg metered dose (powder) and  125 mcg (aerosol) 100–500 mcg twice daily  Mometasone furoate 200–400 mcg (powder) as a single dose  in evening or in 2 divided doses  Compound inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist and inhaled corticosteroids  Budesonide and formoterol  100/6 combination 1–2 puffs, up to 4 puffs daily  (combinations in higher concentrations  available 200/6 and 400/12)  Fluticasone and salmeterol  100, 250 or 500 mcg 50 mcg 1–2 puffs twice daily  Other inhaled preventer therapy  Antimuscarinic  bronchodilators Ipratropium bromide Tiotropium  (Aerosol 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily) (Nebulized solutions 250–500 mcg 3–4  times daily) 18 mcg (powder) once daily 2.5 mcg (solution) 2 puffs once daily  Sodium cromoglicate 10 mg (2 puffs) 4–8 times daily  Nedocromil sodium 2 puffs (4 mg) 2–4 times daily  499  Table 13.3  Continued  Drug Regimen  Oral agents  Leukotriene modifiers  Montelukast 10 mg once daily (evening)  Zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily  Theophylline  Theophylline modified  release  200–400 mg every 12 hours (tablets) 250–500 every 12 hours (capsules)  Aminophylline 225 mg (tablets) twice daily, rising to  450 mg twice daily if necessary  Corticosteroids  Prednisolone 5 mg tablets 30–60 mg daily for acute asthma attack  β2 agonists  Salbutamol 2–4 mg 3–4 times daily  Terbutaline 2.5 mg 3 times daily  Specialist centres only  Steroid-sparing agents,   e.g. methotrexate,  ciclosporin  Ipratropium bromide , an antimuscarinic bronchodilator, is used for   short-term relief in chronic asthma 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily by inhaler.  β2agonist more than 3 times a week, if they have nocturnal symptoms more  than once a week, or if they have had an exacerbation in the last 2 years  requiring systemic corticosteroids or nebulized bronchodilators.  Inhaled corticosteroids  are the most effective preventers. The usual  starting dose for  beclometasone dipropionate  is 100–400 mcg twice  daily. The dose should be titrated to the lowest possible that controls  symptoms. When changing between  beclometasone dipropionate  and  budesonide , a 1 : 1 ratio should be assumed.  Fluticasone  100–500 mcg  twice daily,  mometasone  200–400 mcg as a single dose and  ciclesonide 80–320 mcg daily as a single dose are also available. Inhaled steroids  are the first-line preventer therapy.   Sodium cromoglicate and nedocromil sodium  prevent activation of  many inflammatory cells, especially mast cells, eosinophils and epithe- lial cells. It is difficult to predict who will benefit from them, but they  are less effective ‘preventers’ than inhaled corticosteroids.  Sodium cro- moglicate  is given by aerosol inhalation 10 mg (2 puffs) 4 times a day,  increased to 6–8 times a day in severe cases. The dose of  nedocromil  sodium  is 4 mg (2 puffs) daily.  Leukotriene receptor antagonists  inhibit the cysteinyl L1 receptor,  one of the principal asthma mediators. They may be beneficial in   Table 13.4   The stepwise management of asthma  Step PEFR Treatment  1  Occasional   100%  predicted As-required short-acting  β2agonists If used more than once daily, move to  step 2  symptoms,  less frequent  than daily  2  Daily   symptoms ≤  80%  predicted Regular inhaled preventer therapy Anti-inflammatory drugs: inhaled  low-dose corticosteroids up to  800 mcg daily. LTRAs, theophylline  and sodium cromoglicate are less  effective If not controlled, move to step 3  3  Severe   symptoms  50–80%  predicted Inhaled corticosteroids and  long-acting inhaled  β2 agonist Continue inhaled corticosteroid Add regular inhaled LABA If still not controlled, add either LTRA,  modified-release oral theophylline or  β2 agonist If not controlled, move to step 4  4  Severe   symptoms  uncontrolled  with high-dose  inhaled  corticosteroids  50–80%  predicted High-dose inhaled corticosteroid  and regular bronchodilators Increase high-dose inhaled  corticosteroids up to 2000 mcg daily Plus regular LABAs Plus either LTRA or modified-release  theophylline or  β2 agonist  5  Severe   symptoms  deteriorating  ≤  50%  predicted Regular oral corticosteroids Add prednisolone 40 mg daily to   step 4  6  Severe   Hospital admission  ≤  30%  predicted  symptoms  deteriorating  in spite of  prednisolone  particularly if used in addition to an inhaled corticosteroid.  Montelu- kast  10 mg daily in the evening and  zafirlukast  20 mg twice daily are  the most common leukotriene receptor antagonists used.  Theophylline  is a bronchodilator and sustained-release preparations  are used in combination with inhaled corticosteroids in some cases   of asthma. Modified release theophyllines include  Slo-Phyllin 250–500 mg,  Nuelin SA  250–500 mg and  Uniphyllin Continus  200– 400 mg, all 12-hourly. Brand names must be stated on prescription.   Theophyllines have a narrow therapeutic window and interact with a  number of other drugs. Plasma levels should be between 10 and  20 mg/L for optimal response.  good compliance, a trial of add-on therapy is used, instead of increasing  inhaled corticosteroid dose. The add-on therapy of choice is a long-acting  β2-agonist (LABA); when used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids, these  agents have been shown to improve lung function and symptoms in symp- tomatic patients taking low- and moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroids.  Choices include  salmeterol  50 mcg (2 puffs) twice daily, increased up to  100 mcg (4 puffs) twice daily in severe disease, or  formoterol  12 mcg 1–2  times daily, increased to 24 mcg daily in more severe disease. If there is  an improvement but there are still symptoms, the LABA should be con- tinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to 800 mcg a day.  LABAs and inhaled corticosteroids can be given as  combination therapy ,  which is more convenient for the patient. A combination of  fluticasone  and  salmeterol  and a combination of  budesonide  and  formoterol  are available.  If there is no improvement in symptoms after addition of a LABA, it   should be discontinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to  800 mcg daily. If control is still inadequate, one of the following is added:  leukotriene receptor antagonists ,  modified-release oral theophylline  or  modified-release oral  β2 agonist .  β2 agonist as required, moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroid 800 mcg  daily and add-on therapy (usually a LABA), one of the following can   be used:   Increase inhaled corticosteroids to 2000 mcg a day (monitor for   side-effects).    Do a 6-week sequential trial of one of the following: leukotriene receptor   antagonist, modified-release oral theophylline or modified-release oral  β2 agonist.    If the trial is ineffective, stop the medication; if inhaled corticosteroid is   used, reduce to the original dose.   is the oral corticosteroid of choice and should be used at the  lowest dose that controls symptoms. Patients taking long-term steroids or  3–4 courses a year are at increased risk of side-effects (p. 324). Patients  receiving steroids for more than 3 months should be prescribed a long- acting  bisphosphonate  to prevent osteoporosis. BP and blood glucose  should be checked regularly. Methods of trying to decrease oral steroids  include maximizing other therapy and using maximal doses of inhaled  corticosteroids. Immunosuppressants (steroid-sparing agents), such as  methotrexate ,  ciclosporin  or  oral gold , can be tried for 3 months.  their therapy. This should be done slowly and, where possible, the patient  should be maintained on the lowest dose of inhaled steroid that controls  symptoms. Reduction should be considered every 3 months and the  steroid dose should be reduced by 25–50% each time.  omalizumab ) that form  complexes with free IgE, blocking its interaction with mast cells and  basophils, have been developed. However, although clinical trials have  shown benefit in patients with severe asthma despite corticosteroids, oma- lizumab is not regularly prescribed. Omalizumab is given subcutaneously  2–4 times weekly.  recognition and prevention. Patients should have an action plan and know  how to identify the onset of an exacerbation. The signs of an onset include  worsening PEFR, increasing symptoms or greater use of inhaled short- acting  β2 agonists. Patients should, at this stage, avoid precipitating factors,  use inhaled  β2 agonists for symptom relief and start on a course of oral  corticosteroids. If there is no improvement or they are getting worse, they  should immediately seek medical help.  tightness or cough. Those at increased risk of severe acute exacerbations  of asthma can be identified in the history. Previous near-fatal asthma  attacks requiring ICU admission, previous hospital admissions within the  last year, previous attacks requiring corticosteroids, a need for three or  more classes of drug for asthma, increased use of  β2 agonists (more than 2  canisters a month), known brittle asthma and repeated A&E attendance  within the last year indicate patients who are at risk. Patients who are  non-compliant with treatment, fail to attend hospital appointments,  usually self-discharge from hospital or have any psychological or behav- ioural illness are also at risk of developing severe exacerbations of asthma.  Moderate asthma exacerbation  involves:  •  PEFR 50–75% predicted •  increasing symptoms •  no signs of acute severe or life-threatening asthma.   Acute severe asthma  typically involves one of:  •  PEF 33–50% predicted or best •  inability to complete a sentence in one breath •  respiratory rate  >  25 breaths/min •  tachycardia  >  110 bpm.   Life-threatening asthma  has features including:  •  PEF  <  33% predicted or best •  a silent chest •  cyanosis •  feeble respiratory effort •  exhaustion, confusion or coma •  bradycardia or hypotension •  normal  P aCO2 (4.6–6 kPa) • S pO2<  92% or  P aO2<  8 kPa.  CXR  should be performed to exclude a pneumothorax or consolidation.  PEFR  is used to stratify patients according to disease severity (see  above), and to inform decisions as to intensity of treatment and whether   patients should be treated in hospital or at home. Measurements should  be repeated regularly to gauge response to therapy. Normal values vary  according to size and age but a peak flow  <  200 usually indicates severe  airflow obstruction. Often patients with exacerbations are too breathless  to perform a PEFR.   ABGs  should be measured in patients requiring hospital admission who  have oxygen saturations  <  92% or features of acute severe or life- threatening asthma. A normal  P aCO2 is a sign of life-threatening asthma  and impending respiratory failure, possibly requiring endotracheal  intubation and mechanical ventilation.   Pulse oximetry  should be used to monitor oxygen saturations through-  out admission.   Assess the patient. Tachycardia, a high respiratory rate and an inability   to speak in sentences indicate a severe attack.    Apply  high-flow oxygen  (usually 40–60%), to maintain saturation  >  92%.   If PEFR is  <  150 L/min (in adults), administer  nebulized salbutamol  5 mg or  terbutaline  10 mg — driven via oxygen. (Use a low-reading  meter, as ordinary meters measure from 60 L/min upwards.)    Give 200 mg  IV hydrocortisone  or  prednisolone  40–50 mg orally. In severe asthma not responding to the initial nebulizer :   Repeat the  salbutamol  or  terbutaline nebulizer  at 15–30 min intervals   or give continuous nebulization of  salbutamol  at 5–10 mg/hour (a  special nebulizer is required).    Add nebulized  ipratropium bromide  0.5 mg 4–6-hourly to the neb-  ulized  salbutamol / terbutaline .    Measure ABGs; if  P aCO2 is  >  7 kPa, consider ventilation. If  P aCO2 is  normal, monitor closely, as mechanical ventilation may be required.    Take a CXR to exclude pneumothorax.   If there is no improvement,  magnesium sulphate  IV 1.2–2 g over   20 mins,  salbutamol  IV 3–20 mcg/min,  terbutaline  IV 1.5–5 mcg/min  or  aminophylline  loading dose (if not on maintenance oral therapy)  5 mg/kg over 20 mins, followed by a maintenance dose of 0.5 mg/kg/ hour can be used.   Corticosteroids.  Steroid therapy is given to reverse the underlying  airway inflammation. It is associated with an improved outcome in  exacerbations of asthma and should be given as early as possible (Fig.  13.2).  IV steroids (hydrocortisone  400 mg daily in 4 divided doses) are  usually given. Oral steroids (prednisolone 40–50 mg daily) are as effec- tive, provided the patient is able to swallow. Oral steroids should be  continued until resolution of acute symptoms and a return to usual  daily activities, and until a PEFR within 80% of the patient’s best or  predicted has been obtained. They do not need to be tapered if the  course is shorter than 3 weeks, provided patients are on an appropriate  dose of inhaled corticosteroids.   Antibiotics.  There is no evidence that antibiotics are beneficial, as exac-  erbations are usually caused by viruses. Antibiotics should be reserved  for cases where bacteria are cultured from the sputum or blood, or there  is consolidation on CXR.  IV fluids and correction of electrolytes.  Many patients are dehydrated  and require fluid replacement. They may develop hypokalaemia due to  β2 agonists and this should be corrected.  30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30  500  400  300  PEFR (L/min)  200  100  MNE MNE  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13  Day  Helium oxygen mixtures.  These can be useful in exacerbations of  asthma although evidence is lacking.   Intensive care.  Patients should be referred to ICU for possible endotra-  cheal intubation and mechanical ventilation if they are not responding  to treatment, i.e. there is persistent hypoxia, hypercapnia, confusion,  drowsiness, deteriorating PEFR, increasing acidosis or respiratory  arrest. NIV is not usually used in patients with severe exacerbations of  asthma and should only be in an HDU/ICU setting.  and may not require hospital admission. Their regular treatment should  be increased and they should commence a 2-week course of oral pred- nisolone. If they are safe to discharge, follow-up must be arranged. Hospitalized patients should be established on a drug regimen that they  can safely take at home, and have a PEFR  >  75% best or predicted and a  diurnal variation of  <  25% prior to discharge. Follow-up by a respiratory  physician should be arranged.  suddenly develop severe asthma attacks and are at risk of sudden death.  These patients require a detailed management plan for an exacerbation.  On developing a wheeze they should go immediately to the nearest hos- pital and may require admission straight to ICU. Oxygen, resuscitation  equipment, prednisolone 60 mg and nebulized  β2 agonists should be kept  at home and at work. Patients should wear a MedicAlert bracelet and carry  two self-injectable 0.3 mg  adrenaline (epinephrine)  syringes with them at  all times.  classified by site (e.g. lobar, diffuse, bronchopneumonia) or by aetiological  agent (e.g. bacterial, viral, fungal, aspiration, or due to radiotherapy or   allergic mechanisms). Pneumonias can be community-acquired (CAP;  commonest  Strep. pneumoniae ), hospital-acquired (often Gram-negative  bacteria) or ventilator-associated (p. 548).  parainfluenza viruses. Precipitating factors include cigarette smoking,  alcohol excess, bronchiectasis, bronchial obstruction (e.g. carcinoma) or  inhalation from oesophageal obstruction. IV drug users can contract a  Staph. aureus  infection and patients who are immunosuppressed (e.g. those  having AIDS or receiving treatment with cytotoxic agents) develop pneu- monia; the organisms include  Pneumocystis jiroveci ,  Mycobacterium avium  intracellulare  and cytomegalovirus.  cillin (see Fig. 13.4) but they should be reviewed at 48 hours. If the   mild case has not improved or CAP is very severe, the patient should   be admitted to hospital. There is a significant mortality, particularly in  those over 65 years old. Overall mortality for those admitted to hospital is  about 5%. Strep. pneumoniae  accounts for the majority of cases and for two-thirds  of the mortality.  state of the patient. Following a radiological (Fig. 13.3) and microbiological (if possible)  diagnosis of the pneumonia, an early assessment of the severity of the  pneumonia must be made in order to admit the patient to a medical ward  or to ICU. The CURB-65 (Box 13.3) is a useful guide for doing this. Referral to ICU  will be necessary if there is a failure to respond with a  CURB-65 score of over 3 or if there is progressive hypercapnia, persistent  hypoxia, severe acidosis, shock and depression of consciousness.   should have the following:  CXR.  Repeat the CXR 6 weeks after discharge unless complications  occur. • Strep. pneumoniae.  Consolidation can lag behind clinical signs. • Mycoplasma.  Usually one lobe is involved but infection can be  bilateral.  • Legionella .  There is lobar and then multi-lobar shadowing, with the  occasional small pleural effusion. Cavitation is rare.   Blood tests.  FBC, U&E, LFTs and CRP.  • Strep. pneumoniae .  White cell count is  >  15  ×  109/L (90% polymor-  phonuclear leucocytosis); ESR  >  100 mm/hour; CRP  >  100 mg/L.  • Mycoplasma .  White cell count is usually normal. • Legionella .  There is lymphopenia without marked leucocytosis,  hyponatraemia, hypoalbuminaemia and high serum levels of liver  aminotransferases.    Other tests   Sputum culture. •  Blood culture. •  Pulse oximetry and ABG analysis.  Table 13.5   Clinical features of community-acquired pneumonia  Pneumonia Clinical features  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  Patient is ill with a high temperature (39.5°C). Dry  cough becomes productive, with rusty-coloured  sputum after 1–2 days. Labial herpes simplex.  Breathlessness. Pleuritic pain. Crackle and wheezes  with signs of consolidation and pleural rub. CXR is  shown in Fig. 13.3  Mycoplasma  pneumoniae  Common in young. Cycles of 3–4 years. Headaches  and malaise often precede chest symptoms by 1–5  days. Rare extrapulmonary complications include  myocarditis, pericarditis, erythema multiforme,  haemolytic anaemia, meningoencephalitis. Recovery  usually in 10–14 days. Can be protracted, with  cough and X-ray changes lasting for weeks; relapses  occur. Lung abscesses and pleural effusions rare  Legionella  pneumophila  Sporadic or in outbreaks in e.g. hotels or foreign  travel, or in immunocompromised. Middle to old  age. Males  >  females 2 : 1. Incubation period 2–10  days. Malaise, myalgia, headache, fever (up to  40°C), rigors. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea,  abdominal pain. Can be acutely ill with mental  confusion and other neurological signs. Haematuria,  occasional renal failure and deranged liver function  tests. Breathlessness with initially dry cough, which  can become productive and purulent. CXR slow to  resolve  Viral  pneumonias  Uncommon in adults — influenza A virus or  adenovirus infection is commonest cause. May  predispose patients to bacterial pneumonia Cytomegalovirus pneumonia is seen in  immunocompromised patients (p. 3) Influenza A (H5N1) (p. 50) Management is as for ARDS (p. 549)  Other pneumonias  Haemophilus  influenzae  Frequent cause of exacerbation of chronic bronchitis  and can cause pneumonia in COPD patients.  Pneumonia is diffuse or confined to one lobe. No  special features to separate it from other bacterial  pneumonias  Staphylococcus  aureus  Rarely causes pneumonia, except after preceding  influenzal viral illness. Patients are very ill. Patchy  consolidation in one or more lobes, which break  down to form abscesses. Pneumothorax, effusion  and empyemas are frequent. Septicaemia develops  with metastatic abscesses in other organs  507  Table 13.5  Continued  Pneumonia Clinical features  Staphylococcal  septicaemia  Areas of pneumonia (septic infarcts) frequently seen  in IV drug users, and in patients with central  catheters being used for parenteral nutrition.  Infected puncture site is source of staphylococcus.  Pulmonary symptoms often few but breathlessness  and cough occur and CXR reveals areas of  consolidation. Abscess formation is frequent  Specific tests  for individual organisms are as follows:   Pneumococcal antigen  •  Counter-immunoelectrophoresis (CIE) of sputum, urine and serum   is 3–4 times more sensitive than sputum or blood cultures.  • Urinary antigen test  detects C-polysaccharide. This is rapid and  unaffected by antibiotics; sensitivity is 65–80% and specificity about  80%.   Legionella  antigen  • Urinary antigen test  detects only serogroup 1, which accounts for  most of these infections. Sensitivity (~80%) and specificity are high  (almost 99%).  • Direct immunofluorescent staining  of organism in the pleural fluid,  sputum or bronchial washings is carried out.   Serum antibodies are less reliable. • Legionella  is not visible on Gram staining. • Culture  on special media is possible but takes up to 3 weeks.  Box 13.3   CURB-65 criteria for the diagnosis of severe  community-acquired pneumonia  •   C onfusion – defined as a mental test score of 8 or less or new   disorientation in time, place or person  •   U rea  >  7 mmol/L •   R espiratory rate  ≥  30/min •   B lood pressure: systolic  <  90 mmHg or diastolic  ≤  60 mmHg •  Age  >  65 years of age Score 0–1 — Treat as outpatient Score 2 — Admit to hospital Score 3 +  — Often require ICU care Mortality rates increase with increasing score  Other markers of severe pneumonia •  CXR — more than one lobe involved •   P aO2<  8 kPa •  Low albumin  <  35 g/L •  White cell count  <  4  ×  109/L or  >  20  ×  109/L •  Blood culture — positive  Retrospective  confirmation can be obtained by demonstrating a four- fold increase in antibody titre in the blood.  •  Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) tests on sputum   samples are becoming available.    Mycoplasma  •  Measure serum antibodies (IgM and IgG) in acute and convalescent   samples.  Cold agglutinins  are present in 50% of cases. Other methods  of identification include complement-fixing antibodies and PCR.  •  A kit for PCR is becoming available. •  NASBA tests are becoming available.   Chlamydia  antibodies  are sought by immunofluorescent complement  fixation.  The patient in hospital should be re-evaluated regularly by the nursing  staff, depending on the severity of the illness (see MEWS, p. 2).  Antibiotic therapy.  Antibiotics should be started as soon as possible,  preferably in the A&E department. The choice of the antibiotic is inevi- tably empirical and directed towards  Strep. pneumoniae , as this is the  commonest organism. Acquired antibiotic resistance is a concern but is  still rare in the UK. • Mild uncomplicated CAP  (CURB-65 0–1) is treated in the community   clarithro- mycin  500 mg twice daily or doxycycline 200 mg followed by 100 mg  daily (if penicillin-sensitive) for 5–7 days. The newer quinolones   (e.g.  levofloxacin  500 mg 1–2 times daily or  moxifloxacin  400 mg  once daily for 10 days) are used by some but increasing resistance is   Clinical features  of pneumonia  Sputum for Gram stain and counter-immunoelectrophoresis Sputum and blood for culture Blood for serological tests  Mild community  acquired Severe community  acquired  Chest X-ray  Treat with  amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily or if allergic to penicillin clarithromycin 500mg 2 times daily  Diffuse or  localized  pneumonia  If no response in 48 hours Chest X-ray and review treatment  IV 6-hourly benzyl penicillin 1.2 g or IV 8-hourly co-amoxiclav 1.2 g and IV clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily  Gram-positive cocci on  stain or  S. aureus  on culture  No  S. aureus  Review clinical progress and results of tests  Add flucloxacillin 1g  IV 6-hourly + sodium  fusidate 500 mg  8-hourly  Oral antibiotics  Adjust antibiotics on clinical progress  a concern and these agents are best reserved for patients with  co-morbidities.  • More severe infections  require  amoxicillin  500 mg–1 g 3 times daily   clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily. If oral therapy is contrain- dicated, IV  amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily or benzyl penicillin 1.2 g  4 times daily plus IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily is used. In   patients with high severity pneumonia (CURB 65 3–5),  co-amoxiclav 1.2g 6–8-hourly is combined with IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice  daily.  • If  Staph. aureus  infection is suspected  or is proven on culture, IV  flucloxacillin  1–2 g every 6 hours by slow IV injection or infusion  ± sodium fusidate  500 mg 3 times daily if over 50 kg by IV infusion  should be added. Quinolones are recommended for those intolerant  of penicillins or macrolides. Community-acquired meticillin-resistant  Staph. aureus  (CA-MRSA) can be treated with vancomycin or  linezolid.  • Parenteral antibiotics  should be switched to oral once the tempera-  ture has settled for a period of 24 hours and provided there is no  contraindication to oral therapy.  • Mycoplasma  pneumonia  is treated with a macrolide, e.g.  clarithro-  mycin  500 mg twice daily (or  azithromycin ) for 7–10 days, or a tet- racycline, e.g.  doxycycline  100 mg twice daily.  • H. influenzae  pneumonia  is treated with oral  amoxicillin  500 mg 3   times daily .  • Legionella pneumophila  pneumonia  is usually treated with one of  the macrolides,  azithromycin  being the drug of choice. Quinolones  are also effective and  rifampicin  can be added in very ill patients.  Mortality can be up to 30% in elderly patients but most patients  recover fully.   Oxygen.  All patients with hypoxaemia, acidosis and hypotension  should receive oxygen. The aim is to keep the saturation ( S aO2)  >  92%  and a  P aO2>  8 kPa (60 mmHg). If there is no history of COPD with  hypercapnia, 35% humidified O2 can be given. NIV (p. 485) may be  useful. Criteria for referral to ICU are given above and referral should  not be delayed.   Fluid balance/nutritional support.  Oral intake should encouraged  but, if this is not possible, then IV fluids need to be given. Nutrition   may be a problem for a longer illness and will need to be addressed   (p. 542).   It is commonly treated with  co - amoxiclav  1.2 g 3 times daily but mero-  penem 1 g 3 times daily is also used.    Co-morbidities require more aggressive antibiotic therapy. Manage-  ment is the same as for severe CAP, once appropriate samples for  culture and sensitivities have been taken.    Gram-negative bacteria are common and aminoglycosides (e.g.  gen-  tamicin  5 mg/kg) are often added.    Patients with  chronic chest infection  and others in whom  Pseudomonas infection is suspected should receive an anti-pseudomonal penicillin  (e.g. piperacillin plus tazobactam) or  ciprofloxacin  200–400 mg IV over  30–60 mins or  ceftazidime  2 g bolus IV 8-hourly.   Immunosuppressed patients  may require very high-dose broad- spectrum antibiotics, as well as antifungal and antiviral agents.  Aspiration pneumonia  is relatively common in hospital and usually  involves infection with multiple bacteria, including anaerobes. The oral  route is usually inappropriate in these patients. A combination of  met- ronidazole  (IV or rectal) and  co-amoxiclav  is recommended.  Tuberculosis (TB) is a systemic granulomatous disease caused by  Mycobac- terium tuberculosis . It is more common in developing countries, in particu- lar sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia. However, in the developed  countries, following many years of steady decline, the incidence of TB is  rising due to AIDS, the growing use of immunosuppressive drugs and  increased immigration of people from areas of high endemicity. TB is  transmitted between people by aerosol and therefore the most common  site of infection is the lung.  Primary TB  is the first infection with TB and occurs in those without  immunity. It is usually subpleural and a small lung lesion known as the  Ghon focus may be seen in the mid- or upper zones within 4 weeks of  infection. Hilar lymphadenopathy may be present as the tubercle bacilli  drain into the lymphatics. Primary TB is often asymptomatic; there may  be a mild cough, wheeze or erythema nodosum, and a transient pleural  effusion. The bacilli will continue to proliferate and spread until an  effective cell-mediated immune response is mounted (3–8 weeks), the  spread of infection is arrested and the tuberculin skin test is positive.  Tubercle bacilli remain dormant within calcified lesions but are capable  of reactivation.   Post-primary TB  refers to all forms of TB that occur after the first few  weeks of primary infection when immunity to  Mycobacterium  has devel- oped. It occurs as a result of reactivation of a previously dormant focus  in patients who have infection with HIV, diabetes mellitus, kidney  disease, malnutrition, silicosis, malignancy and other forms of immu- nosuppression.  Common symptoms  include cough (often productive),  fever, night sweats and weight loss.   Disseminated TB  occurs if there is unchecked proliferation and spread  of bacteria due to a failure of the host to mount an effective cell- mediated immune response. Miliary TB is a form of disseminated TB in  which the lesions on CXR resemble millet seeds. TB is an  AIDS-defining illness . It may arise in a patient with HIV from  rapid progression of primary infection, reactivation of disease or  re-infection (p. 115).  Sputum staining.  Acid-fast bacilli in the sputum can be seen by staining  with Ziehl–Neelsen (ZN) stain; alternatively, an auramine-phenol fluo- rescent test is performed. For patients who are unable to expectorate, a  bronchoscopy can be performed and a bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) or  bronchial washing taken from the affected lobe.   Transbronchial biopsies.  These can be obtained for histological and  microbiological assessment. Specimens for microbiology should be  placed in 0.9% saline and not formalin. The presence of granulomas is  virtually diagnostic of TB.   Culture.  Sputum is cultured on Ogawa or Lowenstein–Jensen medium  for 4–8 weeks. Liquid cultures are often used, as they have shorter  culture times. Antibiotic sensitivity should be performed on all  cultures.   Pleural fluid and biopsy.  Pleural fluid culture is positive for  M. tuber-  n about 40% of patients, whereas pleural biopsy culture is posi- tive in about 60% of patients with pleural TB. Pleural fluid adenosine   deaminase is elevated in tuberculous pleural effusions and may aid  diagnosis.   Imaging.  The typical CXR findings are upper lobe infiltrates with or  without cavitations (Fig. 13.5). The infiltrates are often fibronodular and  irregular. CT scans are sensitive at identifying earlier disease and may  show clusters of nodules or a ‘tree in bud’ appearance.  susceptible; drugs must be taken at the appropriate doses and must be  taken regularly; and therapy must be continued for a sufficient period of  time. Treatment can be taken at home. However, patients who are ill, smear- positive, highly infectious (especially with multi-drug resistant TB), non- compliant or those in whom the diagnosis is uncertain may require a short  period of hospitalization.  The initial phase  should consist of four drugs —  rifampicin ,  isoniazid and  pyrazinamide  plus  ethambutol  or rarely  streptomycin  for 2  months. Ethambutol can be omitted in patients who are thought to be  at low risk for isoniazid resistance. This regimen is for patients with  previously untreated TB, who are HIV-negative, are not immunosup- pressed and have not been in contact with anyone with drug-resistant  TB. Neither should they have come from an area with a high prevalence  of drug-resistant TB. The drugs are best given as a combination prepara- tion to aid compliance.  The continuation phase  starts after drug sensitivities are known (6–8  weeks) and should consist of two drugs to which the organism is sus- ceptible, given for a further 4 months.  Rifampicin  and  isoniazid  are   usually standard treatment for adults with pulmonary TB (for doses see  p. 87).  Pyridoxine  10 mg daily is not routinely required but should be  given as prophylaxis against isoniazid neuropathy in patients at  increased risk, such as diabetics, alcoholics and those with dietary  deficiencies.   Directly observed therapy (DOT)  is used for patients who are unlikely  to be compliant with treatment, such as the homeless, those dependent  on alcohol and IV drug users. Special clinics are used and patients are  observed taking their tablets. Some clinics use incentives such as free  meals and cash payments to improve attendance. DOT can be given  daily but intermittent regimens such as 3 times weekly are often more  convenient. However, the effectiveness of DOT therapy is variable and  compliance is still an issue. For doses, see p. 87.  streptomycin should be avoided. Patients can breast feed normally whilst  taking anti-tuberculous chemotherapy. Those on anti-tuberculous therapy  containing rifampicin should be informed of the reduced effectiveness of  the oral contraceptive pill.  the treatment is as for pulmonary TB for 6 months but is extended if the  infection is more advanced or extensive. In tuberculous meningitis, isoni- azid and rifampicin are given for 9 months, supplemented with pyrazina- mide, streptomycin or ethambutol for the first 2 months. Adjuvant  corticosteroids for 3 weeks are recommended.   occurs in people exposed to others with drug- resistant organisms.  Secondary drug resistance  is the development of  resistance after initial drug sensitivity and usually occurs as a result of poor  compliance. WHO define two categories of drug resistance:    multi-drug resistance (MDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin   extensive drug resistance (XDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin ,  quinolones and at least one of the following second-line drugs:  capreomycin  and  amikacin . MDR and XDR are major therapeutic problems worldwide, having a high  mortality and occurring mainly in HIV-infected patients. Transmission of  MDR-TB to healthcare workers and to other patients poses a major public  health problem. The drug treatment of suspected drug resistance in both  HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients is as follows:   With MDR use at least three drugs to which the organism is sensitive.   With resistance to one of the four main drugs, use the other three. Therapy should be continued for up to 2 years, or for at least 12 months  after negative cultures in HIV-positive patients. Second-line drugs avail- able for treatment of resistant  M. tuberculosis  infection are  capreomycin ,  cycloserine ,  clarithromycin ,  azithromycin ,  ciprofloxacin ,  ofloxacin ,  kan- amycin ,  amikacin ,  moxifloxacin  and  rifabutin .  sputum examination for acid-fast bacilli with smear and culture. Once   sputum becomes negative for acid-fast bacilli, patients should have a  monthly sputum examination until culture is also negative. This is the  most reliable indicator of a response to therapy. If, after 3 months of treat- ment, symptoms have not resolved or sputum smear or culture is still  positive, either there is non-compliance with medication or drug resistance  has immerged. Specialist TB nurses and health visitors should monitor  patients’ compliance with treatment. If drug resistance occurs, the addition  of a single drug is not recommended. If new drugs are added, at least two  or preferably three should be commenced which the patient has not  already received. Subsequent treatment should be fully supervised.  tion, prior to commencing therapy. They should be informed of the pos- sible side-effects of treatment and the indications for stopping medication  and seeking advice. They should be seen in clinic regularly for the duration  of chemotherapy to ensure symptoms are improving and that there are no  adverse drug reactions. A CXR should be taken at the end of treatment.  radiological evidence and/or symptoms of TB. Latent tuberculous infec- tion is when a patient is asymptomatic, with a normal CXR but a positive  tuberculin skin test. The Mantoux test and whole-blood interferon (IFN)- γ assay are used to check for TB infection (current or past). The Mantoux test  is an intradermal injection of tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD).  A second visit is required for the test to be read (induration  >  10 mm is  positive) at 72 hours. Whole-blood IFN- γ  assay requires only a blood test  and remains negative after bacille Calmette–Guérin (BCG). Chemoprophylaxis consists of  isoniazid 300 mg  daily for 6 months or  isoniazid 300 mg  +  rifampicin 600 mg  daily for 3 months. Chemoprophy- laxis should only be prescribed after active disease has been fully ruled  out. In the USA there are annual screening tests for asymptomatic patients  who are thought to be at high risk and who would benefit from treatment  of latent TB. These include patients with HIV, residents of long-term care  facilities, those with medical conditions that increase the risk of active TB  and people with ongoing contact with patients who may have active TB,  such as healthcare workers. Chemoprophylaxis is used in the following groups of patients:    those with CXR appearances compatible with previous TB who are due   to start immunosuppressive agents, such as anti-tumour necrosis factor  (TNF) α , or treatment that has an immunosuppressive effect, such as  renal dialysis or corticosteroids    tuberculin-positive children identified in the BCG schools programme   who have a history of contact with infectious TB or have been resident  in a country with a high prevalence of TB within the last 2 years    adults between the ages of 16 and 34 found at new immigrant screening   without BCG history    adults with latent TB who have risk factors for progression to active TB   disease including those with documented recent tuberculin conversion,  those with a history of untreated TB, and those with chronic disease and  immunosuppressive disease    close contacts of patients with active disease and a positive tuberculin     patients with HIV who have been in close contact with a person who   has active TB; this should be irrespective of the tuberculin test, as in  HIV there may be a loss of response to tuberculin.  cases at an early stage. All close family members, other individuals who  share a kitchen or bathroom, or close contacts at school or work are  screened. Those with symptoms are thoroughly investigated for TB and  asymptomatic individuals are sent for CXR and a tuberculin skin test.  Diffuse parenchymal lung disorders (DPLD; also known as interstitial lung  disease) are a heterogeneous group of disorders consisting of over 200  entities and accounting for about 15% of respiratory clinical practice. They  are characterized by chronic inflammation and progressive fibrosis of the  pulmonary interstitium.    progressive onset of increasing shortness of breath or a persistent non-  productive cough    pulmonary symptoms associated with another disorder, such as an   autoimmune rheumatic disease    an abnormal CXR or abnormal lung function or spirometry, usually   showing a restrictive defect    rarely, haemoptysis, pleurisy or a pneumothorax.  Signs.  Clubbing suggests idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, DPLD second-  ary to rheumatoid arthritis or asbestosis. Auscultation reveals fine   end-inspiratory or more sporadic crackles and wheezes. There may be  signs of pulmonary hypertension in patients with severe disease, or  extrapulmonary signs, e.g. ocular features in sarcoidosis or vasculitis;  skin disease may suggest a rheumatological disorder; erythema  nodosum sarcoidosis or a mononeuritis multiplex may indicate a  vasculitis.  Routine blood tests  are rarely diagnostic but may aid the process.  • FBC,  including differential, may show anaemia, e.g. chronic disease  (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis), an iron deficiency secondary to alveolar  haemorrhage, or peripheral blood eosinophilia ( >  1.5  ×  109/L) sec- ondary to pulmonary eosinophilia or drug reactions.  • IgE level  is useful to discriminate between chronic forms of pulmo-  nary eosinophilia in which IgE levels will be low and allergic forms.  • Hypercalcaemia  might be present in patients with sarcoidosis. • ACE concentrations  are helpful in monitoring sarcoid treatment,  although raised levels are not diagnostic of sarcoidosis.  • Serological tests. Antinuclear antibodies  may be present in auto-  immune rheumatic diseases. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies  (ANCA) and anti-glomerular basement antibodies point towards a  systemic vasculitis.  Serum precipitins  suggest a hypersensitivity  pneumonitis secondary to farming or pigeon breeding.  Raised ESR and hypergammaglobulinaemia  may be present but are  not diagnostic.   Pulmonary function tests  may be normal initially, but as disease  progresses they show a restrictive pattern: reduction in total lung   capacity (TLC), residual volume (RV), functional residual capacity  (FRC) and flow rate (reduced FEV1 and FVC with a normal or increased  ratio).   ABGs  may be normal or show hypoxia with a respiratory acidosis.  Carbon dioxide retention is unusual until end-stage disease. If ABGs are  normal, exercise assessment must be performed, as arterial oxygenation  frequently falls on exercise.   Imaging  with CXR and high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT)  should be carried out. All radiology should be compared to previous  films if available.   Echocardiography  assesses for pulmonary hypertension and the pres-  ence of cardiac failure that may be contributing to the diffuse shadow- ing on CXR.   ECG  to look for conduction defects, e.g. sarcoidosis.  Bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)  do not usually have  a role in diagnosis or disease monitoring but are helpful if a surgical  biopsy is not possible.   Transbronchial biopsy  taken during bronchoscopy. Biopsies are most  useful in granulomatous diseases, such as sarcoidosis, and malignant  disease, such as lymphangitis carcinomatosis.   Lung biopsy  is frequently required when the diagnosis remains  uncertain.   Surgical biopsy  can be obtained from more than one site, guided  by the HRCT results. Two approaches are commonly used: video- assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) or a limited thoracotomy. VATS  is preferred, as it is less invasive and is associated with lower morbidity  and mortality.  tion and radiological changes is needed in order to follow progression of  disease and response to therapy.  and pulmonary oedema should be excluded. Histological confirmation is  required in most cases prior to commencement of specific treatment. In  general, drug regimens usually include corticosteroids,  azathioprine, cyclophosphamide  or  mycophenolate .   This multi-system granulomatous disorder of unknown aetiology   usually presents with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, pulmonary  infiltrations, and skin and eye lesions.    It commonly affects young adults, particularly women, with the peak   incidence in the third and fourth decades.    More than 90% of patients have involvement of the lungs and thoracic   lymph nodes.    The most common presentation is with respiratory symptoms, such as   (50%).    Peripheral lymphadenopathy occurs in 5%, fatigue or weight loss in 5%,   and fever in 4%.    Extrapulmonary manifestations include:  •  skin disorders: erythema nodosum, lupus pernio — 10% •  ocular lesions: anterior uveitis, posterior uveitis, conjunctivitis,   retinal lesions, uveoparotid fever (bilateral uveitis, parotid enlarge- ment with occasional development of facial nerve palsy) and kerato- conjunctivitis sicca  •  metabolic manifestations: hypercalcaemia (10% of cases) and hyper-  calciuria, which can result in the development of renal calculi and  nephrocalcinosis  •  CNS disorders: rare — 2%; can cause chronic meningoencephalitis,   spinal cord lesions, cranial nerve palsies, polyneuropathy and  myopathy  •  bone and joint involvement: arthralgia and bone cysts •  hepatosplenomegaly •  cardiac involvement: rare (3%), including arrhythmias, conduction   defects and cardiomyopathy with congestive cardiac failure.  CXR  characteristically shows bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy (BHL).  The differential diagnosis for BHL includes lymphoma, TB, enlarged  pulmonary arteries, metastatic carcinoma and histoplasmosis. There   are four stages of pulmonary involvement based on the radiological  stage of the disease. The stage of disease provides prognostic  information. • Stage I:  BHL alone • Stage II:  BHL with pulmonary infiltrates • Stage III:  pulmonary infiltrates without BHL • Stage IV:  fibrosis.   HRCT chest  shows enlarged hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes, and  diffuse lung involvement with nodules along the bronchi and blood  vessels and in sub-pleural regions. There is beading and irregular thick- ening of broncho-vascular bundles and bronchial wall thickening.  Fibrosis and traction bronchiectasis occur late in the disease.   Other investigations  are as for DPLD. The tuberculin test is negative in  80% of cases but is of no diagnostic value. Serum ACE is raised in 75%  of cases.  Patients with no symptoms,  normal lung function and only hilar lym-  phadenopathy on CXR (stage I) require no treatment. Spontaneous   resolution commonly occurs within a year or two of diagnosis.   Corticosteroids  are the mainstay of treatment for patients with  infiltrates on CXR and abnormal lung function (stages II and III)   and those with chronic progressive disease (stage IV). Systemic   steroids should also be prescribed for ophthalmic symptoms not  responding to topical steroids, cardiac or neurological symptoms, and  hypercalcaemia. • Prednisolone  is usually started at 30 mg a day for 6 weeks and, in   10 mg a day or alternate-day treatment. Treatment should be contin- ued for a minimum of 1 year, keeping patients on the lowest possible  dose that controls symptoms.  •  Severe or persistent erythema nodosum and uveoparotid fever due   to sarcoid will respond to a 2-week course of prednisolone 5–15 mg  daily.  •  Topical steroids can be beneficial for skin lesions, uveitis/iritis and   nasal polyps. There is no clear evidence for the benefit of inhaled  steroids.   Ophthalmic reviews  are carried out regularly for patients with eye  signs, as uveitis can occasionally lead to blindness.   Other forms of treatment  clearly benefit some patients and drugs can  be useful as steroid-sparing agents, although the evidence remains  unclear.  Methotrexate  can be prescribed in chronic or refractory sarcoid  at a dose of 10–25 mg once a week.  Side-effects  include gastrointestinal  symptoms, hepatotoxicity, pulmonary oedema, interstitial pneumonitis  and pulmonary fibrosis.  Hydroxychloroquine  can be used in acute and  chronic disease at a dose of 200–400 mg/day.  Side-effects  include gas- trointestinal disturbances, visual changes and retinal damage, headache  and skin reactions.  Azathioprine  is used in chronic and refractory  disease at a dose of 50–200 mg/day; for  side-effects , see Table 6.3.  Cyclophosphamide  is given in chronic and refractory cases at a dose of  50–150 mg/ day orally;  side-effects  include gastrointestinal distur- bances, haemorrhagic cystitis and haematological toxicity. Mortality is usually  <  5% in the UK but can be up to 10% in black  Americans.  inflammation and fibrosis in the lung parenchyma. There are a number of  subtypes, of which the commonest is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).  nosis, which eventually leads to respiratory failure, pulmonary hyperten- sion and cor pulmonale.  Investigations (p. 516)  • CXR  initially shows a ground glass appearance, followed by irregular  reticulo-nodular shadowing maximal in the lower zones and finally  a honeycomb lung (thick walled cysts 0.5–2 cm in diameter).  • HRCT  shows bilateral predominantly lower lobe changes with basal  and subpleural reticular abnormalities associated with honeycomb- ing and traction bronchiectasis. There is minimal ground glass  attenuation.  • Brain natriuretic peptide  levels are raised in patients with pulmo-  nary hypertension.  • Respiratory function tests  show a restrictive pattern (p. 517). • Invasive diagnostic procedures  — see p. 517.   Treatment.  Treatment is with  prednisolone ,  azathioprine  and  N-acetylcysteine  unless there are contraindications. Domiciliary oxygen  is given for disabling disease. If there is no response, other therapies  such as  cyclophosphamide  may be tried.  Prognosis.  The median survival is about 5 years.  tis) is due to inhalation of organic dusts, e.g. microbial spores found in  contaminated vegetable matter like straw or hay (farmer’s lung), or in the  feathers or excreta of birds, e.g. pigeons (bird fancier’s lung). Fever,  malaise, cough and shortness of breath occur after exposure.  Diagnosis.  Lung function tests show a restrictive pattern and precipitat-  ing antibodies to the antigen are found in the serum.   Treatment.  Treatment is by removal of the antigen, if possible, dust  masks or, in acute cases,  prednisolone .  include direct toxicity (e.g.  bleomycin ), immune complex formation with  arteritis, hypersensitivity and autoimmunity. TB reactivation is seen with  immunosuppressive drugs, e.g. monoclonal antibodies. Table 13.6 gives  some drugs and their respiratory reactions. For further interactions see  www.pneumotox.com. Irradiation  damage following radiotherapy can cause a radiation pneu-  monitis. Patients present with breathlessness and a dry cough. They have  a restrictive lung defect and corticosteroids can be used in the acute stage.  of  >  25 mmHg at rest. It may present spontaneously with no apparent  underlying disease (idiopathic pulmonary hypertension) or it can occur in  association with other diseases, e.g. COPD, pulmonary thromboembolism  or left-sided heart disease (mitral stenosis).  monary artery hypertension (PAH), followed by right ventricular failure.  Groups II–V are classified as having pulmonary hypertension (PH).  Group I: PAH.  This consists of idiopathic, familial and pulmonary artery  hypertension due to disease of the small muscular arterioles. The latter  include autoimmune rheumatic diseases, congenital systemic to pulmo- nary shunts (e.g. congenital heart disease), portal hypertension, HIV  infection and drug toxicity (e.g. dexfenfluramine). This group also  includes diseases associated with significant venous or capillary  involvement, e.g. pulmonary veno-occlusive disease.   Group II: PH owing to left-sided heart disease.  This describes increased  pulmonary venous pressure due to left ventricular dysfunction or mitral  valve disease.   Group III: PH owing to lung diseases and/or hypoxia.  This includes  COPD, interstitial lung disease of sleep-disordered breathing, alveolar  hypoventilation disorders, chronic exposure to high altitude and devel- opmental abnormalities.  Group IV: Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). This includes thrombosis of the proximal or distal pulmonary vascula- ture and also non-thrombotic pulmonary embolism (tumour, parasites,  foreign material).  Table 13.6   Some drug-induced respiratory reactions  Disease Drugs  Bronchospasm Penicillins, cephalosporins  Sulphonamides  Aspirin/NSAIDs  Monoclonal antibodies, e.g. infliximab  Iodine-containing contrast media  β -Adrenoceptor-blocking drugs (e.g.  propranolol)  Non-depolarizing muscle relaxants  IV thiamine  Adenosine  Amiodarone  Anakinra (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist)  Diffuse parenchymal  lung disease and/or  fibrosis  Nitrofurantoin  Paraquat  Continuous oxygen  Cytotoxic agents (many, particularly  busulfan, CCNU, bleomycin, methotrexate)  Pulmonary eosinophilia Antibiotics (penicillin, tetracycline)  Sulphonamides, e.g. sulfasalazine  NSAIDs  Cytotoxic agents  Acute lung injury Paraquat  Pulmonary hypertension Fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, phentermine  Hydralazine  Procainamide  Isoniazid  SLE-like syndrome  including pulmonary  infiltrates, effusions and  fibrosis  Phenytoin  ACE inhibitors  Monoclonal antibodies  Reactivation of TB Immunosuppressant drugs, e.g. steroids  Biological agents, e.g. tumour necrosis  factor blockers  Group V: PH with unclear multi-factorial mechanisms.  This includes  sarcoidosis, Langerhans’ cell histiocytosis, lymphangioleiomyomatosis  and compression of pulmonary vessels (adenopathy, tumour or fibros- ing mediastinitis).  pulmonary vessels caused by remodelling, vasoconstriction, hypoxia and  acidosis with thrombosis. This eventually leads to PH and an increase in  right ventricular afterload, with right ventricular hypertrophy and heart  failure.  classification to the New York scheme for heart failure (p. 417) is used for  assessment.  CXR, ECG and transthoracic echocardiography  are used to assess  severity of PH; appropriate investigations to exclude causal problems  is essential.   HRCT  is used to assess lung fields and size of the pulmonary artery.  Cardiac MR  with contrast provides high-quality images of the pulmo-  nary circulation.  diuretics  for fluid  overload and anticoagulation with  warfarin  for pulmonary thromboem- bolism.  O2 therapy  is necessary for patients with hypoxia at rest or after  exercise. Vasodilatation therapy is being used in PAH;  bosentan ,  sildenafil  and  inhaled iloprost  have all shown some benefit. Atrial septostomy and lung  transplantation is used for patients unresponsive to therapy. N.B.  There is no evidence for the use of angiotensin receptor blockers,  ACE inhibitors or  α -blockers.  or rarely from the right heart can dislodge and embolize into the pulmo- nary arterial system. Thrombi can form due to sluggish blood flow, local  injury, compression of the vein or a hypercoaguable state. Tumour or fat  can also embolize. Embolism results in the lung tissue being unperfused but ventilated,  producing an intrapulmonary dead space and resulting in impaired gas  exchange.  Small to medium PEs  cause a sudden onset of breathlessness, with  pleuritic chest pain and haemoptysis.   Multiple recurrent PEs  can lead to breathlessness over weeks or  months. They can cause fatigue, syncope on exertion and occasionally  angina. The signs are those of PH.   Massive PE  is rare but a medical emergency. The patient may suddenly   collapse with severe central chest pain, shock (pale and sweaty), tachy- pnoea and tachycardia. There may be cyanosis and syncope, and death  can occur rapidly. On examination the patient is hypotensive, with signs  of right ventricular overload (a right ventricular heave and a loud pul- monary second sound). The revised Geneva score (Table 13.7) gives the clinical probability of   a PE.  522  Table 13.7   Revised Geneva score for the clinical prediction of a  pulmonary embolism  Criterion Score  Risk factors  Age  >  65 years + 1  Previous deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism + 3  Surgery or fracture within 1 month + 2  Active malignancy + 2  Symptoms  Unilateral leg pain + 3  Haemoptysis + 2  Clinical signs  Heart rate (bpm)    75–94 + 3   ≥  95 + 5  Pain on leg deep vein palpation and unilateral oedema + 4  Clinical probability  Low 0–3  Intermediate 4–10  High ≥  11  Small/medium or recurrent emboli  • CXR.  This is often normal. Linear atelectasis, blunting of a costo-  phrenic angle (due to a small effusion) and a raised hemidiaphragm  may be seen after some time. Rarely, a wedge-shaped pulmonary  infarct is seen. Previous infarcts are seen as opaque linear scars, and  enlarged pulmonary arterioles with oligaemic lung fields indicate  advanced disease.  • ECG.  This is usually normal, except for sinus tachycardia. Sometimes  atrial fibrillation or another tachyarrhythmia occurs.  • Blood tests.  There is a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, a raised ESR  and increased serum lactate dehydrogenase levels.  • Plasma D-dimer.  This is positive. If undetectable, it excludes a diag-  nosis of PE.  • CT.  Contrast-enhanced, multi-detector CT angiograms (CTAs) have  a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 96%, with a positive predictive  value of 92% (higher with 64-multislice scanners). This is the inves- tigation of choice.  • Radionuclide ventilation/perfusion scanning ( � � V Q / scan).  This is a  good initial test after measurement of D-dimers. It demonstrates  ventilation/perfusion defects, i.e. areas of ventilated lung with per- fusion defects. Pulmonary 99mtechnetium scintigraphy demonstrates   523  the under-perfused areas, while a scintigram, performed after inhala- tion of radioactive xenon, shows no ventilatory defect. A matched  defect may, however, arise with a PE that causes an infarct, or with  emphysematous bullae. This test is therefore conventionally reported  as a probability (low, medium or high) of PE and should be inter- preted in the context of the history, examination and other  investigations.  • US.  This is used for detection of clots in pelvic or ilio-femoral veins. • MRI.  This gives similar results and is used if CTA is  contraindicated.   Massive pulmonary emboli  • CXR  may show pulmonary oligaemia, sometimes with dilatation of  the pulmonary artery in the hila. Often there are no changes.  • ECG  shows right atrial dilatation with tall peaked P waves in lead  II. Right ventricular strain and dilatation give rise to right axis devia- tion, a degree of right bundle branch block, and T wave inversion in  the right precordial leads. The ‘classic’ ECG pattern with an S wave  in lead I, and a Q wave and inverted T waves in lead III (S1, Q3, T3),  is rare.  • ABGs  show arterial hypoxaemia with a low arterial CO2 level, i.e.  type I respiratory failure pattern.  • Echocardiography  shows a vigorously contracting left ventricle, and  occasionally a dilated right ventricle and a clot in the right ventricular  outflow tract.  • Pulmonary angiography  has now been replaced by CT and MR  angiography.   Give high-flow oxygen (60–100%), unless there is significant chronic   lung disease. Bed rest and analgesia are prescribed for patients with  pulmonary infarcts.    Severe cases require:  •  Resuscitation with IV fluids with or without inotropic agents to   improve the pumping of the right heart. Very ill patients will require  care on the ICU.  •  Fibrinolytic therapy is indicated with persistent hypotension.   Alteplase 10 mg IV over 1–2 mins, followed by IV infusion of 90 mg  over 2 hours; or streptokinase 250 000 units by IV infusion over  30 mins, followed by streptokinase 100 000 U IV hourly for up to  12–72 hours according to manufacturer’s instructions. This can clear  pulmonary emboli more rapidly and confer a survival benefit.  •  Rarely, surgical embolectomy, when there is no alternative for very   severe haemodynamic problems.   Start low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).   Give oral anticoagulants immediately and taper off heparin as the oral   anticoagulant becomes effective (INR 2-3). Oral anticoagulants are con- tinued for 6 weeks to 6 months, depending on the likelihood of recur- rence of venous thrombosis or embolism. Recurrent embolism requires  lifelong treatment. As an alternative to warfarin, oral thrombotic drugs  are available (p. 71). They do not need preliminary heparin treatment.    Vena cava filters (temporary or permanent) can be inserted percutane-  the legs to the lungs. They are used for recurrent emboli with the patient  already on warfarin. Warfarin can subsequently be stopped.  An effusion is an excessive accumulation of fluid within the pleural   space.  disease. They are usually divided into transudates and exudates.  Transudates  occur due to increased hydrostatic or decreased oncotic  pressures. Common causes include heart failure, cirrhosis and  hypoproteinaemia.   Exudates  occur due to an increase in capillary permeability when the  pleural surface or lung is damaged. Common causes include pulmonary  emboli, malignancy, a post-pneumonia effusion and TB.   Small effusions are often asymptomatic.   Patients with larger effusions usually present with shortness of breath,   with or without pleuritic chest pain, or with symptoms associated with  the underlying disease.   Clinical examination  shows reduced expansion, a stony dull percus-  sion note, reduced or absent breath sounds, and reduced or absent vocal  fremitus on the affected side. In massive pleural effusions the trachea  can be deviated.  CXROver 300 mL of pleural fluid can be detected on a CXR (Fig. 13.6). Small  effusions can be seen as obliteration of the costophrenic angle, whilst large   525  effusions produce a dense homogeneous shadow occupying part of the  hemithorax.  Removal of large amounts of fluid should be done under ultrasound guid- ance which reduces the risk of pneumothorax and other complications. It  is not necessary if the likely diagnosis is a transudate, e.g. left ventricular  failure.  Diagnostic aspiration  is usually performed with a green needle and a   50 mL syringe under aseptic conditions. The best position for aspiration  is posteriorly, about 10 cm lateral to the spine. Local anaesthetic lido- caine 1% should be infiltrated prior to aspiration.   Fluid  should be sent for microbiological, biochemical and cytological  analysis.   Appearance and odour  •  Clear straw-coloured fluid that does not clot on standing indicates a   transudate.  •  An exudate may look the same but is usually more turbid due to the   presence of cells.  •  Blood-tinged fluid is non-diagnostic but a uniformly bloody effusion   is likely to be secondary to a malignancy, PE with infarction or  trauma. If the haematocrit in the pleural fluid is more than half that  of the patient’s peripheral blood haematocrit, the diagnosis is a  haemothorax.  •  Purulent, viscous, unpleasant-smelling yellow fluid suggests pus and   an empyema.   Protein content.  Under 30 g/L of protein is a transudate;  >  30 g/L   indicates an exudate. However, if the patient has an abnormal serum  protein concentration or the pleural protein is between 25 and 35 g/L,  Light’s criteria should be used to differentiate between the two.   Light’s criteria and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH).  The pleural fluid is  an exudate if: •  fluid to serum ratio of total protein is  >  0.5 •  fluid to serum ratio of LDH is  >  0.6  and/or •  the pleural fluid LDH is more than two-thirds of the upper limit of   normal serum LDH.   Cell type.  The white cell count can be helpful but is often not  diagnostic. • Neutrophilia  suggests infection, e.g. post pneumonia. • Lymphocytosis  indicates TB or malignancy, e.g. lymphoma. • Eosinophilia  is not diagnostic. • Red cells  suggest trauma, malignancy or pulmonary emboli. • Malignant cells  may be present.   Glucose and pH.  Glucose of  <  3.3 mmol/L suggests malignancy, TB or   rheumatoid arthritis. A low pH  <  7.2 is usually due to infection (requir- ing drainage) or malignancy.   Amylase pleural fluid/serum ratio.  A ratio  >  1 suggests acute pancrea-  nancy (especially adenocarcinoma).   CT chest.  CT chest with contrast may be useful in cases of difficult  drainage to delineate the size and location of loculations.   Percutaneous pleural biopsy.  This is performed for patients with an  undiagnosed exudative pleural effusion when there is a clinical suspi- cion of malignancy or TB. It can be done blind with an Abram’s needle  or under CT guidance. Samples should always be sent for TB testing, in  sterile saline and not formalin. All biopsy and aspiration sites should  be marked with Indian ink; if the final diagnosis is mesothelioma,  patients will require radiotherapy to the biopsy site within 1 month to  prevent seeding in the biopsy track.   Bronchoscopy.  This should only be performed if there is haemoptysis  or any evidence to suggest bronchial obstruction.   Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS).  VATS allows direct visualiza-  tion of the pleura and should be performed if all other, less invasive  tests fail to provide a diagnosis. It is very effective for the diagnosis of  malignant effusions.  Transudates  usually resolve with treatment of the underlying condi-  tion. Occasionally, pleurodesis and shunts are required to control  symptoms.   Symptomatic pleural effusions  may require drainage of a large amount  of pleural fluid. Re-expansion pulmonary oedema is a rare complication  that can occur when more than 1 L is drained. For frequent recurrent  re-accumulations of fluid an intercostal drain is used and, provided  there is a confirmed diagnosis, pleurodesis may be necessary.   Indications for chest tube drainage  include frankly purulent or turbid  fluid on pleural aspiration, positive pleural fluid Gram stain or culture,  a pleural fluid pH  <  7.2, loculated pleural collections and large non- purulent effusions that are causing symptoms. If there is a poor response  to antibiotics alone, chest tube drainage may be required. If the chest  tube becomes  blocked  it can be flushed with 20–50 mL of 0.9% saline to  ensure patency. If drainage still remains poor, repeat imaging should be  used to confirm the position and look for the presence of loculations.  rial spread from a severe pneumonia or rupture of a lung abscess into the  pleural space. There is usually infection with an anaerobic organism (in  70%), and the patient is very ill and has a high temperature.  culture is performed to rule out septicaemia. FBC, U&E and liver biochem- istry are performed routinely.  Antibiotics (BTS guidelines).  Antibiotics should be given according to  culture results and sensitivities for up to 6 weeks. They should cover  both aerobic and anaerobic organisms, e.g. IV  cefuroxime  1 g 6–8- hourly and IV  metronidazole  500 mg 8-hourly for 5 days. This should  be followed with  oral cefaclor  and  metronidazole . If no culture results  are available, a broad-spectrum antibiotic with metronidazole is given  intravenously.   Intercostal drainage.  Intercostal drainage under US or CT guidance is  required to drain the empyema.   Surgery.  Patients with persistent sepsis and a persistent pleural collec-  tion despite antibiotics and chest tube drainage for 7 days should be  referred to a thoracic surgeon.  Intercostal  drainage  and  pleurodesis  prevents pleural fluid  re-accumulation. A chest drain is inserted and the pleural effusion  drained to dryness in a controlled manner so as to prevent re-expansion  pulmonary oedema. A CXR should be performed to confirm drainage  of pleural fluid, re-expansion of the lung and the position of the inter- costal drain. A chemical is then instilled into the pleural space, leading  to inflammation and formation of adhesions between the two layers of  the pleura.  Lidocaine  3 mg/kg is instilled into the pleural space, fol- lowed by the sclerosing agent. The chest drain should then be clamped  for 1 hour and the patient rotated if talc slurry has been used. The chest  drain can be unclamped and, provided the lung remains fully  re-expanded and there is satisfactory drainage of pleural fluid, should  be removed within 12–72 hours. Success rates are usually  >  60%. Side- effects include pleuritic pain and fever. There are a number of sclerosing  agents available, e.g.  tetracycline ,  bleomycin  and  doxycycline . Talc is  usually the preferred agent, as it is inexpensive, widely available and  effective. However,  <  1% of patients may develop respiratory failure  post instillation. The recommended dose is 2–5 g.   Thoracoscopy  can be used to deliver talc poudrage, which has a mean  pleurodesis success rate of  >  90%.   Pleural abrasion or partial pleurectomy  can also be performed via  thoracoscopy in patients who have a good prognosis.   Other measures  include chronic indwelling pleural catheters, pleuro- peritoneal shunts, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.  Pneumothorax means air in the pleural space. A  primary  spontaneous  pneumothorax occurs in patients with no underlying lung disease. They  are usually found in young, tall, thin men and are caused by the rupture  of a pleural bleb, which is usually apical. A  secondary  spontaneous pneu- mothorax occurs in individuals with underlying lung disease, such as  COPD. Traumatic pneumothorax is the result of blunt or penetrating chest  wounds.  with progressively increasing shortness of breath and occasionally a  cough. The history may reveal an underlying disease process or history of  trauma. Patients with a small pneumothorax have no signs on clinical examina-  absent breath sounds, reduced vocal fremitus, and normal or hyper- resonant percussion note on the affected side. If the pneumothorax is  under tension the patient will be distressed, tachypnoeic, cyanosed and  hypotensive, and the trachea is deviated away from the affected side.  Box 13.4   Simple aspiration of a pneumothorax  1. Explain the nature of the procedure and obtain consent 2. Infiltrate 2% lidocaine down to the pleura in the second   intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line  3. Push a 3–4 cm 16 French gauge cannula through the pleura 4. Connect the cannula to a three-way tap and 50 mL syringe 5. Aspirate up to 2.5 L of air. Stop if resistance to suction is felt or   the patient coughs excessively  6. Repeat CXR (in expiration) in the X-ray department  Imaging.  A CXR usually makes the diagnosis by showing a pleural line.  In a tension pneumothorax there may be deviation of the trachea and  mediastinal shift away from the affected side. If a pneumothorax is  clinically suspected but the PA film looks normal, a lateral radiograph  may help detection. CT scans are useful in patients with severe bullous  lung disease, as they help to differentiate an emphysematous bulla from  a pneumothorax.   ABGs.  These may show hypoxia, particularly in patients with underly-  ing chest disease. Hypercapnia may be present in COPD. Acute respira- tory alkalosis may occur if there is pain, anxiety or severe hypoxia.  Medicine p. 715)  If the patient has no symptoms and the CXR shows a rim of air  <  2 cm   between the lung margin and the chest wall, no treatment is necessary.  These patients can be discharged and reviewed in outpatients in 2–4  weeks. They should be advised not to travel by air or go diving.    If a patient is breathless and/or has a rim of air of  >  2 cm between the   lung margin and the chest wall, high-flow oxygen should be given and  aspiration of air should be attempted (Box 13.4).    Repeated aspiration is performed if the first attempt was unsuccessful   and  <  2.5 L of air was aspirated.    If the above measures fail and the lung does not re-expand and/or the   patient remains breathless, an intercostal drain should be inserted and  connected to an underwater seal or a Heimlich flutter valve (one-way  valve). If, after 24 hours, the lung has fully expanded and there is no  ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed.    A bubbling chest drain should never be clamped. Some experienced   chest physicians support the clamping of non-bubbling chest drains  prior to removal to detect small air leaks. This should only be done  under the supervision of a respiratory physician, on a specialist ward  with experienced nurses. If the patient’s symptoms get worse or  subcutaneous emphysema develops, the drain should be unclamped  immediately.    Suction can be applied to the intercostal drain if, 48 hours after insertion,   This should be performed on a specialist ward using a high-volume,  low-pressure ( − 10 to  − 20 cmH2O) system.   Surgical referral  is indicated if the lung fails to re-expand or there is an  ongoing air leak after 5–7 days. Surgical referrals should also be made  for patients with a second ipsilateral pneumothorax, a first contralateral  pneumothorax, bilateral spontaneous pneumothorax or spontaneous  haemothorax, and for those in a profession at risk, such as pilots and  divers. Surgical treatment includes inspection of the lung and pleura  under VATS for blebs, bullous areas or breaches in the parietal pleura;  these are dealt with by staple resection, electrocautery or ligation. At  the same time, a procedure that creates pleurodesis can be performed.  The options to prevent recurrence include pleurectomy, pleural abra- sion with a scourer, or talc pleurodesis.   Observation alone is recommended only for asymptomatic patients   with a small pneumothorax of  <  1 cm or a small apical pneumothorax.  These patients should be observed in hospital. All other cases require  intervention.    Simple aspiration is recommended only in patients under the age of   50 who have minimal shortness of breath and a small pneumothorax   of  <  2 cm. Treatment of the underlying lung disease may also be  required.    Intercostal drain insertion is recommended for most patients with sec-  ondary pneumothorax, except for those described above. As for primary  pneumothorax, if, after 24 hours, the lung is fully re-expanded and there  is no ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed. Suction is as for  primary pneumothorax.    A surgical referral should be made if the lung fails to re-expand or   there is an air leak after 3 days. Surgical options are as for primary  pneumothorax.  inspiration and cannot be expelled on expiration. This leads to increasing  accumulation of air within the pleural space, positive intrapleural pressure  throughout breathing, deflation of the lung, mediastinal shift, decreased  venous return to the heart, and ultimately respiratory and cardiac embar- rassment that can lead to a cardiac arrest. It is more common in patients  on positive pressure ventilation and should be considered in those with  respiratory/cardiovascular compromise post chest trauma or post any  procedure in which the thorax is pierced with a needle. Treatment is with  immediate decompression by placing a 14-gauge cannula into the second  intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line. The diagnosis is confirmed if  there is release of air with immediate improvement in symptoms. A chest  drain should then be inserted on the affected side. For all pneumothoraces, air travel should be avoided until full  resolution.  Calvaley PMA, Walter P: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,  Lancet 362:1053–1081, 2008. Jaff MR: Management of massive and sub-massive pulmonary embolism.  A scientific statement from the American Heart Association,  Circulation 123:1–43, 2011.  530  
CHAPTER CONTENTS  Approach to the patient  473  Pneumonia  505  Tuberculosis  512  Chronic obstructive   pulmonary disease  474  Diffuse parenchymal   lung disorders  516  Obstructive sleep apnoea/ hypopnoea syndrome  488  Pulmonary hypertension  520  Cystic fibrosis  490  Pleural effusion  525  Asthma  496  Pneumothorax  528   A productive cough  is a feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease (COPD) or bronchiectasis (large volumes). Yellow sputum does  not always indicate infection, as eosinophils in the sputum can give   the same appearance, e.g. in asthma. Green sputum usually implies  infection.   Haemoptysis  (blood-stained sputum) varies from small streaks of blood  to massive bleeding. •  Mild haemoptysis is usually caused by an acute infection, e.g. exa-  cerbations of COPD, but it should not be attributed to this without  investigation.  •  Other common causes are pulmonary infarction, bronchial carcinoma   and TB.  •  In lobar pneumonia, the sputum is usually rusty in appearance rather   than frankly blood-stained.  •  Pink, frothy sputum is seen in pulmonary oedema. •  In bronchiectasis, the blood is often mixed with purulent sputum. •  Massive haemoptyses ( >  200 mL of blood in 24 hours) are usually   due to bronchiectasis or TB. Haemoptysis should always be investigated. Often, the diagnosis can be  made from a CXR, but a normal CXR does not exclude disease. Bronchos- copy is only diagnostic in about 5% of patients with haemoptysis and a  normal CXR. For  management of a massive haemoptysis , see Box 13.1. Treatment of cough  is the treatment of the underlying cause and often  symptomatic. Anti-tussives include  codeine linctus  5–10 mL 3–4 times  daily or  pholcodine  5 mL 3–4 times daily. There is no evidence that expec- torants work but  simple linctus  5 mL 3–4 times daily is comforting.  mented. Breathlessness can be of sudden onset, e.g. in acute left ventricular   Box 13.1   Management of massive haemoptysis  As little as 250 mL can fill the bronchial tree and be life-threatening.  This is uncommon but frightening for everyone involved. •  Monitor oxygen saturation with oximetry, BP and pulse rate •  Exclude coagulation defects •  Perform a CXR •  Endotracheal intubation and suction may be required •  Urgent bronchoscopy is needed •  A double lumen endotracheal tube can be inserted by an   anaesthetist to protect the unaffected lung  •  Bronchial artery embolization is highly effective if the bleeding   vessel can be identified and bleeding continues  failure, or more progressive, as in COPD. It may vary at different times of  the day, e.g. in asthma it is usually worse in the morning. Breathlessness on lying flat occurs in, for example, pulmonary oedema  (p. 425). Breathlessness with a wheeze occurring on exposure to an   allergen is seen in asthma (e.g. horse riding). It can occur many hours   after exposure to an allergen (p. 520) in, for example, hypersensitivity  pneumonitis. Inhalation of foreign bodies can cause choking and acute shortage of  breath. Treatment is with the Heimlich manoeuvre. See Emergencies in  Medicine p. 714.  other causes, e.g. localized pain in costochondritis. Shoulder tip pain sug- gests irritation of the diaphragmatic pleura. Retrosternal soreness occurs  with tracheitis but also in other conditions, e.g. oesophagitis, when it is  usually burning. Chest pain should always be differentiated from cardiac  pain, which is usually a central crushing chest pain radiating to the jaw,  neck and left arm (p. 431).  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a slowly progressive  condition predominantly caused by smoking and is the sixth commonest  cause of death worldwide; its incidence is increasing. It is characterized by  airflow limitation, which is not fully reversible. The lungs have an abnor- mal inflammatory response to inhaled particles or gases, resulting in  airflow limitation. The GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive  Lung Disease, WHO) criteria for the diagnosis of lung disease are shown  in Table 13.1.  474  Table 13.1   COPD — Global Initiative in Obstructive Lung Disease  (GOLD) criteria  Stage of  COPD Function Symptoms of  breathlessness  None or mild  I Mild FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≥  80% predicted  On exertion  II Moderate FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  50% and  ≤  80% of  predicted  On minimal exertion,  e.g. dressing  III Severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1≤  30% and  ≤  50% of  predicted  At rest  IV Very severe FEV1/FVC  <  70% FEV1<  30% predicted or  FEV1<  50% predicted plus  respiratory failure  tal pollution are the major causes for COPD in the world, although only  10–20% of heavy smokers develop COPD.   Inflammation, infection, scarring, loss of elasticity and increased secre-  tion of mucus (which blocks airways) all play a role. There is also an  imbalance of protease and antiprotease activity ( α1-antitrypsin being the  major antiprotease).    Small airways are particularly affected early in the process (obstructive   bronchiolitis).    If airway narrowing is combined with emphysema (loss of elastic recoil   of the lung with collapse of small airways during expiration), airflow  limitation is even more severe.   Microscopically , there is infiltration of the walls of bronchi and bron-  chioles by acute and chronic inflammatory cells, with ulceration of  epithelial layers leading to squamous metaplasia, scarring and thicken- ing of walls.   Systemic  sequelae including skeletal muscle dysfunction (see below). Thus, the characteristic physiological effects include airflow limitation and  abnormal alveolar gas exchange, leading to cor pulmonale (pulmonary  vascular disease).  with a smoking history of more than 20 pack years (1 pack year  =  20 ciga- rettes per day for 1 year). It is supported by objective evidence of airflow   475  limitation (or obstruction), usually with spirometry, which does not return  to normal with treatment.   Patients are usually over the age of 35, have a risk factor and present   with one or more of exertional breathlessness, chronic cough, regular  sputum production, frequent winter ‘exacerbations/bronchitis’ or  wheeze.    Effort intolerance, ankle swelling and fatigue also occur.   Chest pain and haemoptysis are uncommon and an alternative diagno-  sis should be looked for.    Extrapulmonary features occur, e.g. osteoporosis, depression and   metabolic problems leading to weight loss, loss of muscle mass and  weakness.  In mild COPD,  signs are absent, except for a wheeze.  In more severe COPD,  tachypnoea, prolonged expiration, pursed lip  breathing, use of accessory muscles and intercostal in-drawing on inspi- ration are seen. Hypercapnic patients will be vasodilated with a bound- ing pulse and a coarse flapping tremor of the outstretched hands. Severe  hypercapnia causes confusion and progressive drowsiness. Clubbing is  not  a sign of COPD and should alert the physician to the possibility of  bronchiectasis or lung cancer.   In advanced COPD,  patients develop cor pulmonale.  disease secondary to disease of the lung. It occurs in hypoxic patients with  COPD. Pulmonary hypertension can be present for years without causing  symptoms. Cor pulmonale is enlargement of the right ventricle secondary to  increased afterload due to primary lung disease in patients who have no  other cause of ventricular dysfunction. Symptoms include worsening exer- tional dyspnoea, fatigue and chest pain. On examination JVP is raised and  there is a right ventricular parasternal heave, a loud pulmonary compo- nent of the second heart sound, fluid retention and peripheral oedema.  airflow obstruction on spirometry.  Spirometry  shows evidence of airflow obstruction, with a reduced  forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) of  <  80%, a reduced FEV1to forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio of  <  70% and a reduced peak expira- tory flow rate (PEFR). In COPD reversibility is less than in asthmatic  patients (usually a change in FEV1 of  <  15%). Clinically significant  COPD is not present if the FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio return to normal  following treatment. FEV1 determines severity (Table 13.1) and can also  be used to monitor the course of the disease and response to therapy.  In addition, FEV1 can be used to test reversibility and is a predictor of  mortality. Five-year survival is about 50% when FEV1 falls to  <  1 L.  Serial home PEF measurements  can be useful to exclude asthma.  Reversibility to bronchodilators is also helpful in distinguishing patients  who have asthma and to aid further management.  Haemoglobin level and packed cell volume (PCV)  can be elevated as  a result of persistent hypoxaemia causing secondary polycythaemia.   Arterial blood gases (ABGs)  determine the degree of hypoxia and  hypercapnia. A baseline should always be taken for assessment of  patients in acute exacerbations and will help in assessing the need for  long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT).   Pulse oximetry  measures oxyhaemoglobin concentration but remember  that it does  not  give information about the CO2 ( P aCO2 or arterial carbon  dioxide tension) and hence alveolar ventilation.   CXR  can be normal or show hyper-expanded lung fields with low flat-  tened diaphragms and the presence of bullae.   Sputum culture  is usually unnecessary.  ECG  is not necessary in routine assessment of COPD but can show  advanced cor pulmonale; it is insensitive.   Alpha1-antitrypsin level and phenotype  may be helpful (young non- smokers, lower lobe emphysema, a family history of chest problems).  The normal range for  α1-antitrypsin is 2–4 g/L.  symptomatic relief and the prevention of exacerbations and complications.  No existing medication has been shown to  modify decline  in lung  function.  cessation programme has been shown to reduce the age-related decline in  FEV1, significantly in middle-aged smokers with mild airways obstruction,  and also lead to a decrease in cardiovascular and lung cancer mortality.  Smokers should be told to stop and an agreed target date set.  Nicotine  replacement therapy (NRT ) or  bupropion  is given, unless contraindicated,  in addition to a support programme to improve the chances of success.  NRT  aims to replace nicotine and thus reduce the craving for a cigarette.  Chewing gum  2 mg and 4 mg,  transdermal patches  16-hour and  24-hour in varying doses,  nasal spray  0.5 mg per spray, inhalational  10 mg  inhalation cartridge ,  sublingual tablets  2 mg and  lozenges  1, 2  and 4 mg are available. Nicotine patches should be limited to 3 months’  usage. NRT should be stopped if the patient restarts smoking.  Common  side-effects  are localized reactions, such as skin irritation with patches,  and minor sleep disturbances.  Contradictions  include vascular disease  and allergy to the drug; NRT should not be used in pregnancy or breast  feeding.   Bupropion  sustained release is a weak, selective inhibitor of the neuro-  exact mechanism by which it aids smoking cessation is unclear. The  dose is 150 mg once a day for 1 week prior to stopping smoking and  then 300 mg a day for a further 6–8 weeks, provided the patient abstains  from further cigarettes.  Side-effects  include seizures in about 1 in 1000  patients. Avoid in patients with a previous history of seizures, or a  concomitant administration of other medication that lowers the seizure  threshold. Other side-effects include hypersensitivity reactions (0.1%),  insomnia and dry mouth.   Combination therapy  with NRT or bupropion has so far shown no  significant benefit.   Varenicline  is an oral partial agonist on the  α4β2 subtype of nicotinic  acetylcholine receptor. A 12-week course increases the chances of stop- ping smoking four-fold; its main side-effect is nausea but severe depres- sion has been recorded.  the long-term relief of symptoms in patients with an FEV1<  80%  predicted.   remains the mainstay of treatment, despite the fact that  COPD is characterized by irreversible airway obstruction. It causes relaxa- tion of the smooth muscle and thus decreases airway resistance. Patients  with mild COPD feel less breathless.  Inhaler technique.  Patients should be taught a good technique for using  inhalers; this should be rechecked regularly. COPD patients may have  problems in effective coordination and find it hard to use simple  metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) . This can be improved by offering dif- ferent types of inhaler and/or a spacer.   Beta2-adrenoceptor agonists  act directly on the smooth muscle, have  a relatively rapid onset of action and can therefore be used for sympto- matic relief and prior to exercise. They can be used on an ‘as required’  or a ‘regular’ basis. • Short-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists. Salbutamol  is usually   given by pressurized aerosol inhalation 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs) up  to 4–6 times a day.  Terbutaline  is prescribed at a dose of 250–500 mcg  (1–2 puffs) up to 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting  β2-adrenoceptor agonists.  These are used in more  severe airway limitation (moderate and severe COPD). They include  salmeterol  50–100 mcg (2–4 puffs) twice a day and  formoterol  12 mcg  inhaled twice a day (depending on formulation and severity). Side-effects  include fine tremor, nervous tension, tachycardia, arrhyth- mias and hypokalaemia.  Antimuscarinic agents  are used for achieving greater and more pro-  longed bronchodilatation. • Short-acting antimuscarinics.  These cause bronchodilatation by  blocking the bronchoconstrictor effects of cholinergic nerves. They  have a longer onset of action and a more prolonged and greater  bronchodilatory effect than  β2 agonists, and are associated with less  toxicity.  Ipratropium bromide  is given by aerosol inhalation at a  dose of 20–40 mcg 3–4 times a day or by nebulized solution 250– 500 mcg 3–4 times a day.  • Long-acting antimuscarinics.  Inhaled  tiotropium  18 mcg once daily   improves the duration of bronchodilatation and the fre quency of  acute exacerbations in patients with moderate to severe COPD. Side-effects  include dry mouth, nausea, constipation, bladder outlet  obstruction, exacerbation of acute-angle glaucoma and headache. In  mild disease  short-acting  β2 agonists or short-acting antimuscarinic  bronchodilators should be prescribed as required. Their effects are   478  additive and once airflow becomes more severe a regular antimuscarinic  can be added to a  β  agonist. Some patients prefer to use just one combined  inhaler  ipratropium bromide 20 mcg and salbutamol 100 mcg /metered  dose 2 puffs 4 times a day. Patients who remain symptomatic despite being treated with a combi-  nation of two short-acting bronchodilators or patients who have two or  more exacerbations a year should be prescribed a long-acting bronchodila- tor and an inhaled corticosteroid should be added (see below). Objective evidence of improvement in peak flow or FEV1 may be small  and the decision on whether to continue or stop therapy should be based  on the patient’s reported symptoms.  shortness of breath that interferes with daily activities. Inhaled corticoster- oids are usually reserved for stable COPD, but if already prescribed,  should be continued throughout exacerbations.  Oral corticosteroids  The use of corticosteroids in patients with COPD  remains contentious but a subgroup of patients respond to these drugs  with improvement of lung function. Therefore in symptomatic patients  a trial of  prednisolone  of 30 mg a day for 2 weeks can be given, with  spirometry measurements before and after the treatment period. If  patients show a response (FEV1 increases  >  15%), prednisolone should  be stopped and an inhaled steroid such as  beclometasone  400 mcg  twice daily started. Regular oral corticosteroids are not recommended,  but in advanced COPD, patients may require a maintenance dose when  steroids cannot be withdrawn after an exacerbation.   Inhaled corticosteroids.  An inhaled corticosteroid should be given, in  addition to a bronchodilator, in patients with an FEV1<  50% or with  two or more exacerbations a year requiring treatment with antibiotics  or oral corticosteroids. In addition, a trial of high-dose inhaled cortico- steroid for 3 weeks in patients with moderate airflow obstruction can  distinguish those patients who actually have a diagnosis of asthma and  not COPD. There are a number of  different formulations and inhalers available. The dose varies from 200 mcg to 800 mcg a day.  There are many  side-effects  associated with corticosteroids (see Box 15.2,  p. 585). Inhaled steroids cause considerably fewer systemic side-effects,  although at high doses adverse effects have been reported.  β2 receptor gene, increasing receptor numbers  and decreasing desensitization, whilst long-acting  β2 agonists may amplify  the anti-inflammatory effects of corticosteroids.   Corticosteroids are used in combination with  β2 agonists for mainte-  nance therapy in moderate to severe COPD, as they provide synergistic  benefit for patients. They produce better control of symptoms, improved  lung function and reduced exacerbation rates, with no greater risk of  side-effects.    Combinations include  fluticasone propionate  50–500 mcg per metered   dose and  salmeterol  25–50 mcg per metered dose, or  budesonide  100– 400 mcg per metered dose and  formoterol  6–12 mcg per metered dose.  Patients usually require 1–2 puffs twice a day.  479   Other combinations  of treatment can be used if monotherapy does not  control symptoms: • β2 agonists and antimuscarinics • β2 agonists and oral theophylline •  antimuscarinics and oral theophylline.  Clinical effectiveness should be judged by improvements in symptoms,  activities of daily living, exercise capacity and lung function. If there is no  benefit after 4 weeks, therapy should be discontinued.  Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT)  benefits patients with progressive  COPD who are hypoxic with a  P aO2<  8 kPa (59 mmHg)  and  signs of cor  pulmonale, such as peripheral oedema. These patients have a poor  prognosis and, if left untreated, 5-year survival is  <  50%.    LTOT can also be used for exercise-induced hypoxia and to relieve acute   shortness of breath. Oxygen therapy should always be used in a control- led manner, as some patients’ respiratory drive depends on their degree  of hypoxia (p. 483).   Continuous administration  of oxygen is given at 2 L/min, maintaining   oxygen saturations  >  90% for more than 15 hours a day. A fall in pul- monary artery pressure was achieved if oxygen was given for  >  15  hours, but substantial improvements in mortality were achieved only if  oxygen was administered for 19 hours daily. The following patients should be assessed for oxygen therapy:   those with severe airflow obstruction (FEV1<  30% predicted) or moder-  ate airflow obstruction (30–49% predicted)    cyanotic patients, polycythaemic patients and those with peripheral   oedema, signs of right-sided heart failure, or oxygen saturations  <  92%  when breathing air. Patients fulfil the  criteria for LTOT  when they have:   a  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (55 mmHg) when stable and breathing air; measure-  ments should be taken on two occasions at least 3 weeks apart after  appropriate bronchodilator therapy    a  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa (55–59 mmHg) with polycythaemia, nocturnal hypox-  aemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary hypertension    a carboxyhaemoglobin of  <  3% (i.e. patients who have stopped smoking). Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen are shown in Box 13.2. Patients requiring LTOT will need an oxygen concentrator and educa-  tion regarding its use. They should use the oxygen for at least 15 hours per  day or, if possible, 20 hours per day. Once established, they should be  reviewed at least once a year by a practitioner familiar with LTOT. They  should be warned about the risks of explosion and fire if they continue to  smoke. Short-burst oxygen should be reserved for patients with episodes  of severe breathlessness that is not relieved by other treatment. An  oxygen alert card  stating the oxygen saturation should be given to  all patients who have had hypercapnic respiratory failure.  tors are small and can be used at home. Patients should be considered for   Box 13.2   Guidelines for domiciliary oxygen (Royal College of  Physicians, 1999)  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2<  7.3 kPa   when breathing air during a period of clinical stability  •  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in   the presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal  hypoxaemia, peripheral oedema or evidence of pulmonary  hypertension  •  Severe chronic asthma with  P aCO2<  7.3 kPa or persistent   disabling breathlessness  •  Diffuse lung disease with  P aO2<  8 kPa and in patients with   P aO2>  8 kPa with disabling dyspnoea  •  Cystic fibrosis when  P aO2<  7.3 kPa or if  P aO2 7.3–8 kPa in the   presence of secondary polycythaemia, nocturnal hypoxaemia,  pulmonary hypertension or peripheral oedema  •  Pulmonary hypertension without parenchymal lung involvement   when  P aO2<  8 kPa  •  Neuromuscular or skeletal disorders, after specialist   assessment  •  Obstructive sleep apnoea despite continuous positive airways   pressure therapy, after specialist assessment  •  Pulmonary malignancy or other terminal disease with disabling   dyspnoea  •  Heart failure with daytime  P aO2<  7.3 kPa (on air) or with   nocturnal hypoxaemia  home NIV if, despite maximal treatment, they have hypercapnic respira- tory failure and have required ventilatory support during an exacerbation,  or are acidotic or hypercapnic on LTOT.  daily.  Oral mucolytic drugs.  Mucolytics increase the expectoration of sputum  by reducing its viscosity. Regular use of mucolytics for at least 2 months  can reduce the number of exacerbations of COPD and days of illness.  They should be used in patients with a chronic productive cough but  only continued if there is continual symptomatic improvement. • Carbocisteine  2.25 g a day in divided doses, then 1.5 g daily in   divided doses.  Erdosteine  300 mg twice daily is also used.  • Mecysteine hydrochloride  200 mg 4 times a day for 2 days, followed   by 200 mg 3 times a day for 6 weeks, then 200 mg twice daily.  Anti-oxidants. N-acetylcysteine  has both anti-oxidant and mucolytic  properties, and has been shown to reduce frequency of exacerbations.  However, it and other anti-oxidants, such as  α -tocopherol and  β -carotene  supplements, are currently not recommended.   Anti-tussives.  Regular use of anti-tussive medication is not recom-  mended in COPD, as there is insufficient evidence for its benefit, and  although cough is a problematic symptom, it has a protective role.    Antibiotics  •  There is no evidence for the use of prophylactic antibiotics. •  Give antibiotics in acute exacerbations, as they shorten exacerbations   and may prevent hospital admission.  •  Give the patient a supply of antibiotics to keep at home, to start when   sputum turns yellow or green.  • Amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily is still effective, although resistance   to  H. influenzae  occurs in 10–20%. Resistance is less frequent to  cefaclor  500 mg 8-hourly or  cefixime  400 mg once daily;  co-amoxiclav is an alternative. Long-term treatment with antibiotics was thought to be of little value  but eradication of infection and keeping the lower respiratory tract free  of bacteria may help prevent deterioration in lung function.    Vaccination/antiviral therapy  • Polyvalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine  usually pro-  vides lifelong immunity after a single dose.  • Annual influenza vaccination  should be given, unless patients have  a hypersensitivity to eggs.  • Antiviral agents  include  zanamivir  inhalation of 10 mg twice daily   for 5 days and  oseltamivir  75 mg 12-hourly for 5 days. They are  recommended for the treatment of ‘at-risk’ adults who can start  therapy within 48 hours of presenting with an influenza-like illness.  For  side-effects , see p. 91.   Antidepressants.  These may be helpful in COPD, as mood disturbances  such as anxiety and depression are common.   Alpha1-protease inhibitor augmentation therapy.  Young patients with  severe hereditary  α1-antitrypsin deficiency with serum levels  <  0.31 g/L  and abnormal lung function are candidates for  α1-antitrypsin replace- ment therapy. There is limited evidence for its benefit in modifying the  disease in the long term.  Physiotherapy.  Physiotherapy is helpful for patients with excessive  sputum. Patients should be encouraged to cough to remove sputum and  taught the active cycle of breathing techniques and how to use positive  expiratory pressure masks.   Nutrition.  Weight loss is common in patients with COPD and there is  an association between low BMI and increased mortality. Patients with  a low BMI should be referred for dietary advice and nutritional supple- ments. Overweight patients should also be offered dietary advice, as  obesity puts additional strain on the cardio-respiratory system.  Pulmonary rehabilitation.  Patients with moderate to severe COPD on  optimal medical treatment should be put on a pulmonary rehabilitation  programme. The aim is to prevent or reverse the deconditioning that  occurs in patients with COPD due to lack of exercise and immobility  caused by symptoms. The rehabilitation programme is provided by a  multi-disciplinary team and includes physical training, disease educa- tion, nutritional advice, and psychological, social and behavioural  intervention.  mortality, and patients must be carefully selected and be receiving optimal  medical management prior to surgery. Bullectomy, lung volume reduction  surgery and lung transplantation are used in severe disease.  symptoms from his or her usual stable state that is beyond normal day-to- day variations, and is acute in onset’. Exacerbations of COPD are among the commonest acute respiratory  problems presenting to primary or secondary care.   They are usually caused by infection, although only 50% of patients will   have a positive sputum culture. The commonest organisms are  H. influ- enzae ,  Strep. pneumoniae  and  Moraxella catarrhalis .    Viruses, including rhinovirus, influenza (including H1N1 swine flu   variant), coronavirus, adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus,  account for up to 30% of cases.    Pollutants may also precipitate an exacerbation.   Some patients with mild exacerbations can be treated at home, but   factors such as acute confusion, a decreased level of consciousness,  significant co-morbidities, severe breathlessness and acidosis require  hospital admission .  CXR  for signs of infection or other pathologies, e.g. pneumothorax or  pulmonary oedema.   Baseline ABGs  on room air (or a known inspired oxygen concentration)  to look for hypoxia or hypercapnia.   Purulent sputum  for culture.  ECG  to look for a cardiac cause for the deterioration.  Blood cultures  if the patient is pyrexial.  Routine bloods  for FBC and U&E.  care includes prophylaxis against deep vein thrombosis, optimizing fluid  status and ensuring adequate nutrition.  Controlled oxygen.  A fixed performance mask can deliver 24%, 28%  and 35% oxygen. It is given to correct hypoxia and maintain oxygen  saturations  >  90%. In a minority of patients respiratory drive is hypoxic  and high oxygen concentrations can result in increasing levels of carbon  dioxide, decreasing consciousness, and respiratory acidosis and arrest.  Pulse oximetry should always be available to measure oxygen satura- tions. An ABG is performed on arrival in hospital to monitor CO2 levels.  Oxygen concentrations should never be reduced in patients who are  hypoxic, even if CO2 levels are high.   Bronchodilators (p. 478).  There is no benefit in delivering bronchodila-  Bronchodilators are, however, given via a  nebulizer  with a face mask  or mouth piece delivering higher doses if patients are too breathless to  coordinate the use of an inhaler/spacer. If the patient is hypercapnic,  the nebulizer should be driven with air and not oxygen. Oxygen can be  given at the same time via nasal cannulae.   Inhaled  β2 short-acting adrenergic agonists (p. 478).  The frequency  and dose of inhaled  β2-agonists can be increased in an acute exacerba- tion. They reach peak activity between 10 and 30 mins, and remain  effective for about 4–6 hours.  Salbutamol  (via inhaler or nebulizer) is  the most commonly used.  Nebulizers  are given at a dose of 2.5–5 mg,  usually 4 times daily, although this can be increased provided side- effects are tolerated. Currently, there is no evidence to support the use  of IV  β2-agonists in acute exacerbations of COPD.   Inhaled short-acting antimuscarinics.  These agents are often used  in  combination with inhaled  β2-agonists  in acute exacerbations of COPD  and are associated with fewer side-effects. They have a less rapid onset  of action but a longer duration of action. They can be delivered via an  inhaler as  ipratropium bromide  20–40 mcg, or via a nebulizer  ipratro- pium bromide  500 mcg,  salbutamol  2.5 mg/2.5 mL vial, 1 vial 4 times  a day.   Systemic corticosteroids.  These drugs reduce the increased airway  inflammation in patients with acute exacerbations of COPD. Short  courses of corticosteroids have been shown to reduce FEV1, improve  hypoxia and shorten duration of hospital stay compared to placebo. All  patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation should receive  a course of  oral corticosteroids  30 mg for 7–14 days, in addition to other  therapies, provided there are no contraindications. The first dose of  corticosteroids can be given intravenously as  hydrocortisone  or  methyl- prednisolone . If patients do receive a prolonged course of corticoster- oids, the dose should be gradually tapered down.   Antibiotics (p. 482).  There is some evidence for a small but significant  benefit with antibiotics in acute exacerbations of COPD, especially in  those with more severe disease .  The use of antibiotics is recommended  in patients with a history of increased purulence or production of  sputum or in those with consolidation on CXR or clinical signs of pneu- monia. Initially, treatment is empirical, with an  aminopenicillin , a  mac- rolide  or a  tetracycline , and then changed when culture results and  sensitivities become available. Antibiotic use should be guided by local  policy. Commonly used antibiotics include  amoxicillin  250–500 mg 3  times daily (15% of  Haemophilus  strains may be resistant),  doxycycline 200 mg then 100 mg daily, or  erythromycin  250–500 mg every 6 hours  or 0.5–1 g every 12 hours.  Ampicillin  can be used instead of  amoxicillin.   Methylxanthines.  The use of methylxanthines such as  theophylline (p. 501) remains controversial, as there is currently no clear evidence of  benefit in acute exacerbations of COPD. IV theophylline should only be  used in patients refractory to nebulized bronchodilators, and levels  should be monitored within 24 hours of treatment and regularly after  this period. Patients already taking oral methylxanthines should con- tinue on this medication during an exacerbation and should  not  receive  additional IV methylxanthines. IV methylxanthines are usually pre- scribed as  aminophylline loading dose  5 mg/kg (250–500 mg) over at  least 20 mins, followed by 0.5 mg/kg/hour over 24 hours adjusted  according to plasma levels. Patients should be closely monitored  throughout.   Respiratory stimulants.  These (e.g.  Doxapram  1.5–4.0 mg/min) are   inappropriate.  Acute exacerbation of COPD  Intercostal drainage  Pneumothorax  CXR  Sit up Stop sedatives Bronchodilators (nebulized or IV) + corticosteroids  Pneumonia  Antibiotics  Yellow/ green sputum  Physiotherapy  Blood gases  P2 < 8 kPa P2 < 7 kPa  P2 < 8 kPa P2 > 7 kPa  Continuous controlled oxygen therapy (Venturi mask 24%)  P2 increased P2 rising  P2 increased P2 steady  Nurses, physiotherapists and relatives encourage deep breathing  P2 rising pH  ≤  7.25–7.35  Venturi mask 28% or 35% O2 to achieve saturtions 88-92%  P2 still rising and/or pH < 7.25  NIV with BiPAP (if no BiPAP give IV doxapram 1.5–4mg/min)  P2steady  P2rising  Continue  Transfer to HDU/ICU for continuation of NIV and possible invasive ventilation  Return to 24% O2 if sats not < 88%   Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) This is the treatment of choice in patients with exacerbations of COPD  who, despite maximal medical therapy and controlled oxygen therapy,  have a persistent respiratory acidosis (pH 7.25–7.35, [H + ] 45–56 nmol/L).  ventilatory support (BiPAP). Continuous positive airway pressure    (CPAP, p. 542) is also used. NIV can avoid the need for endotracheal  intubation.   Patients with pH  <  7.25 respond less well to NIV and should be referred  directly for tracheal intubation or a trial of NIV in an intensive care  setting.    NIV results in a reduced need for endotracheal intubation and thus the   associated complications. There is improved acidaemia, a reduction in  mortality and a shortening of hospital stay. NIV allows better commu- nication, and nutrition and physiotherapy to continue as normal.   Contraindications  to NIV include impaired consciousness, recent facial  or upper airway surgery, facial abnormalities such as burns or trauma,  undrained pneumothorax, hypoxaemia, cardiovascular instability, ina- bility to protect the airway, recent gastrointestinal surgery, vomiting  and copious respiratory secretions.   Endotracheal intubation Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are used in patients  with acidaemia or with persistent or worsening hypoxia despite NIV, and  when NIV is contraindicated.  Mortality  in patients with COPD who are intubated for an exacerbation  is about 20%.    Assessment for suitability for intubation and ventilation includes func-  tional status, requirement for oxygen when stable, BMI, co-morbidities,  previous admissions to the ICU, FEV1 and age. Weaning from a ventila- tor can be difficult and NIV can be used post extubation to shorten  weaning time.   Other therapies Although there is no proven benefit, chest physiotherapy, particularly with  the use of positive expiratory pressure masks, can be helpful in patients  with copious secretions. Currently, there is no evidence showing benefit  for the use of  heliox  (helium and oxygen mixture) in patients with exac- erbations of COPD.  airflow limitation, i.e. a fall in FEV1. A predictive index (BODE  = b ody  mass index, degree of airflow  o bstruction,  d yspnoea and  e xercise capacity)  has recently been modified, improving prediction of outcome, and is  shown in Table 13.2. A patient with a BODE index of 0–2 has a mortality  rate of 10% and with 7–10 it rises to 80% at 4 years. A simpler index using  a ge,  d yspnoea and airflow  o bstruction (ADO) gives a similar prognosis.   Prior to discharge patients should have adequate and stable gas   exchange (oxygen saturations and ABGs) on optimal maintenance bron- chodilator therapy.    They should understand what medication to take, including oxygen   therapy if required.    Spirometry should be measured prior to discharge as a baseline for   further measurements.    A follow-up appointment should be made for 4–6 weeks, especially   for those with respiratory failure who may require assessment for  LTOT.    Ensure that there is adequate support at home.  486  0 points 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 7 points 9 points  Table 13.2   Assignment of points for the updated BODE index  FEV1 (% predicted) ≥  65% ≥  36–64% ≤  35% – – – –  BMI (kg/m2) >  21 ≤  21 – – – – –  Dyspnoea (MRC scale) 0–1 2 3 4 – – –  6-min walk distance (m) ≥  350 – – – ≥  250–349 ≥  150–249 <  150  487    Obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS) affects   1–2% of the population and is commonly seen in overweight, middle- aged men.    It is a syndrome caused by abnormal size and/or collapsibility of the   pharynx during sleep, which disrupts sleep and causes symptoms.    During sleep, activity of the respiratory muscles is reduced and in   OSAHS this results in collapse of the upper airways intermittently and  repeatedly. If there is complete collapse, there is total obstruction of   the airway and no respiratory flow (apnoea); partial collapse may   cause snoring; and if there is critical collapse, there is reduced flow  (hypopnoea).    Apnoea results in hypoxia and increasingly strenuous respiratory   efforts until the patient overcomes the resistance and there is termina- tion of the apnoea and resumption of breathing.    The patient wakes up as a result of the combination of this increased   respiratory effort and central hypoxic stimulation. Patients may wake  up hundreds of times per night, resulting in reduced rapid eye move- ment (REM) sleep and sleep deprivation. Patients are usually unaware  of these night-time awakenings. Factors predisposing to OSAH include increasing age, male gender,  obesity, sedative drugs, smoking and alcohol consumption.  Differential diagnosis. Central sleep apnoea  is due to impairment of  central ventilatory control secondary to brainstem pathology. It occurs  at the onset of sleep and is seen in non-obese patients with no history  of snoring.  SymptomsThese include excessive daytime somnolence (90%), impaired concentra- tion and loud snoring (95%). Patients may fall asleep at work, whilst  driving or in mid-conversation. If patients present with typical symptoms, they should be asked to  complete an  Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) . The maximum score is 24,  normal range is  <  11, mild daytime sleepiness 11–14, moderate subjective  daytime sleepiness 15–18 and severe daytime sleepiness  >  18. Patients and  their partners should fill out the Epworth Sleepiness Scale independently,  as patients often under-estimate the severity of their symptoms because  onset is often gradual and there may be concerns over driving.  and BP. Mandible size should be noted. There should be a full examination  of the nose, oral cavity and upper airways, and a complete respiratory,  cardiovascular and neurological assessment.  and lipid abnormalities, and there is increasing evidence of an association  with increased cerebrovascular events. Patients with OSAHS may decom- pensate with hypercapnic respiratory failure or cor pulmonale, especially  if there is co-existent COPD.  suggestive of OSAHS with sleepiness in dangerous situations, such as  driving or operating hazardous equipment, even if the ESS is normal; and  those with likely OSAHS and COPD should be referred to a specialist sleep  centre.  Sleep studiesThe primary aims of sleep studies are to assess sleep fragmentation, to  establish whether a respiratory problem is responsible and to decide if  upper airway obstruction is the primary cause.  Oximetry  is cheap and widely available. It can be used to measure the  number of oxygen desaturations per hour or the time spent below an  agreed  S pO2 level during the study. Oximetry has a role in initial assess- ment but limited sleep studies or polysomnography are usually required  for diagnosis of OSAHS.   Polysomnography  records sleep and breathing patterns simultane-  ously. Full polysomnography monitors sleep stage, oxygen saturation,  respiratory effort, airflow, thoraco-abdominal movement, snoring, ECG,  body position and limb movements. This is an expensive technique, as  the patient needs to spend the night in a sleep centre and a technician  must be available throughout. Full polysomnography is not necessary  for diagnosis in most cases.   Limited sleep studies  can measure thoraco-abdominal movement, oxi-  metry, flow and heart rate. The limited sleep studies can be performed  at home, although there is reduced sensitivity and specificity, compared  to full polysomnography.  tions and patient compliance. Management should consist firstly of correc- tion of treatable and potentially reversible factors.  Who to treat.  Patients who have a sleep study showing a  >  4% oxygen  saturation dip more than 10 times an hour should be referred for treat- ment. Treatment is also necessary in those with mild OSAHS who are  symptomatic or have complications.  ance of alcohol, sedatives and sleeping tablets. Some patients may benefit  from sleeping on their side. Keeping the nose as clear as possible, with the  use of nasal decongestants if required, may improve symptoms. Treatment of underlying conditions such as hypothyroidism may  greatly improve symptoms of OSAHS. The above measures may alleviate symptoms in patients who snore or  have mild OSAHS. However, in those with more severe disease, additional  treatment, as well as behavioural change, is likely to be required and  should not be delayed.  NIV  CPAP.  This involves wearing a tight-fitting mask during sleep,  which delivers pressure via air tubing from a flow generator in the   region of 5–10 mmHg. The pressure splints open the pharynx and  prevents collapse, allowing unobstructed breathing and an undis- turbed night. Nasal CPAP is currently the treatment of choice. There  are machines available that automatically ‘hunt’ the pressure  required to overcome the collapse of the airway. Supplemental  oxygen can be delivered via the machine if oxygen saturations are  low, such as in COPD patients. Treatment with CPAP improves  symptoms and may improve BP. Once patients are established on  CPAP, they are likely to require it for life. However, compliance is  poor because of the discomfort and noise. Other  side-effects  include  rhinitis, nasal congestion, nasal bridge abrasions, claustrophobia and  abdominal bloating.  • Intra-oral devices.  Mandibular advancement devices may be worn  at night; by holding the lower jaw forward, they increase the space  behind the tongue and thus pharyngeal volume. This improves  airflow. Alternatives include tongue-retaining devices, which hold  the tongue forward. These devices need to be made individually and  are useful in patients with mild OSAHS and for snorers.   Pharmacological treatment  • Supplementary oxygen  may benefit a small subset of patients, espe-  cially those living at altitude.  • Modafinil  200–400 mg daily (100 mg in the elderly) in the morning is   a wake-promoting drug that is a potential adjunctive therapy. There  are, however, ongoing debates regarding its efficacy.  reduce pharyngeal resistance during sleep.  Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty  involves resection of the uvula, redundant  retro-lingual soft tissue and palatine tonsillar tissue if present. The  outcome is difficult to predict and it is not uniformly successful.  Side- effects  include post-operative pain, changes in voice and nasal regurgi- tation of food. In addition, patients are more likely to have difficulty  with CPAP following surgery.   Tonsillectomy  may help patients with large tonsils.  Tracheostomy  is only used in patients with life-threatening apnoea in  whom all other treatments have failed. It works by bypassing the  obstruction. Mandibular advancement, suprahyoid tensing, weight reduction surgery  and nasal surgery have been used but there is insufficient evidence to  recommend these treatments.  with continued driving, even if the diagnosis is clinically suspected but  not yet formally diagnosed. Once a diagnosis is made, patients must be  told verbally and in writing that it is their responsibility to inform the  authorities.  incidence of 1 in 2500 and a calculated carrier frequency of 1 in 25 in the  UK. It is more common in the Caucasian population.   CF is caused by a genetic mutation in the cystic fibrosis gene, which   codes for a protein known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regula- tor (CFTR) protein. The gene is situated on the long arm of chromosome  7 (7q21.3 → 7q22.1).    The commonest mutation in the European population is  δ F508, which  is found in about 70% of affected cases and causes defective synthesis,  defective maturation, blocked activation or defective function of the  CFTR protein.   The CFTR protein is essential for regulation and transport of electrolytes   across the epithelial cell and intracellular membranes. In the presence  of a mutant CFTR protein, chloride channels in the epithelial cells fail  to open in response to elevated cyclic adenosine monophosphate  (cAMP), leading to a decreased excretion of chloride ions and an  increased reabsorption of sodium. As a result, less water is secreted into  the airways, making the secretions more tenacious and viscous, more  difficult to expectorate, and prone to infection. There is a continuous  cycle of infection and inflammation, resulting in severe airway damage,  bronchiectasis and loss of respiratory function.    In the sweat ducts a similar process results in increased concentrations   of sweat sodium and chloride, which is useful for diagnosis. Other  organs involved include the pancreas, liver, biliary tree and gut.  RespiratoryThe commonest presentation is with recurrent respiratory infections. A  cough productive of purulent sputum in childhood eventually results in  bronchiectasis and chronic airway obstruction. Increased breathlessness  occurs as the disease develops. Other pulmonary complications include  haemoptysis, pneumothorax and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Eventually, cor pulmonale and respiratory failure develop. Nasal polyps  and purulent sinusitis occur.  Physical signs  include clubbing, cyanosis,  wheeze and scattered coarse crackles.  Infection  is a major problem. The bacteria are described in the treatment  section. Colonization with  Burkholderia cepacia  is an increasing problem.  It is multi-resistant and is spread by patient-to-patient contact, resulting  in clinic segregation and the end of ‘CF holidays’.    Clinically, one-third of patients have no change in symptoms or lung   function, in one-third there is deterioration of lung function, and in  one-third there is rapid deterioration resulting in death, even in   patients with previous mild disease. The latter is known as ‘cepacia  syndrome’.   Viral infections  also occur.  in malabsorption of fat and protein, and causing steatorrhoea and malnu- trition. Infants and children may present with failure to thrive, diarrhoea  or acute pancreatitis. Bowel obstruction secondary to meconium ileus  (10%) can occur soon after birth; if it occurs later in life, it is known as  ‘meconium ileus equivalent’ or ‘distal intestinal obstructive syndrome’   (DIOS). These patients present with volvulus or rectal prolapse. Biliary  obstruction may result in cholecystitis, while chronic liver disease   and cirrhosis can lead to portal hypertension, varices and splenomegaly.  There is an increased prevalence of gallstones (especially cholesterol),  reflux oesophagitis, peptic ulceration and gastrointestinal malignancy   in CF.  diabetes mellitus in about 11% of adult patients with CF. Diabetic ketoaci- dosis is rare. Male patients are infertile as a result of failure of the   vas deferens and epididymis to develop. Female patients are able to con- ceive but their fertility may be reduced secondary to thickened cervical  mucus.  retardation, demineralization and osteoarthropathy may occur. Patients on  long-term steroids may develop osteoporosis (p. 585).  Positive family history.  Sweat test.  This is the gold standard test for diagnosis of CF and must  be performed in an experienced laboratory. Sweat is collected with  pilocarpine iontophoresis; chloride levels with CF are  >  60 mmol/L. The  test can be repeated the day after receiving fludrocortisone 3 mg/m2 for  2 days, when the sweat electrolyte concentration fails to suppress into  the normal range in CF patients.   Nasal potential difference.  Normal values are  − 10 to  − 30 mV; in CF   they are  − 34 to  − 60 mV. The test is performed in specialist centres.   Genotyping.  The diagnosis can be confirmed if two abnormal mutations  (see above) are found.   Radiology.  A CXR or CT showing enlarged lung volumes and evidence  of bronchiectasis supports a diagnosis of CF.   Pancreatic insufficiency.  This is demonstrated by a low stool elastase,  abnormal pancreatic stimulation tests or fat malabsorption.  talization, enhance quality of life, prevent complications (particularly those  associated with treatment) and improve mortality.  Management.  Management requires a multi-disciplinary team and is  best provided in centres that specialize in CF.   Clinic visits.  Spirometry, blood tests (including vitamins and  Aspergillus precipitins), CXR and a physiotherapy and dietician review should be  carried out.  Respiratory management.  The aim of respiratory therapy is to decrease  the number and pathogenicity of the infecting organism and suppress  the lung’s hyper-responsive immune system. This can be achieved with  antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, bronchodilators and airway clear- ance techniques. There is no good clinical evidence for the use of  oxygen . In hypoxic patients, oxygen may delay or prevent the complica- tions of chronic hypoxia, as it does in COPD. Oxygen may also be used  during exercise.   guide antibiotic therapy. There  is no overall consensus on the use of prophylactic antibiotics and duration  of treatment.  Acute respiratory exacerbations.  IV antibiotics may be required if  there is bacterial resistance to all orally administered antibiotics and if  oral antibiotics fail to resolve symptoms. FEV1 and CRP can be used to  monitor response to therapy. • Staph. aureus.  Antibiotics (p. 77) such as continuous twice-daily oral  flucloxacillin  are usually prescribed if there is evidence of chronic  colonization. Continuous prophylactic antibiotics are used in patients  with frequent recurrent exacerbations. Despite prophylaxis, isolates  of  Staph. aureus  require high-dose  flucloxacillin  and an additional  antibiotic such as  sodium fusidate ,  azithromycin/erythromycin ,  clindamycin  or  rifampicin . Patients with severe exacerbations  should receive a second-generation  cephalosporin , an  aminoglyco- side  or  vancomycin  for at least 10–14 days.  • H. influenzae.  All isolates should be regarded as pathogenic. A  2-week course of a  macrolide  or  ampicillin  should usually treat  H .  influenzae , although resistance is common. Persistent infection can be  treated with  cefuroxime ,  cefotaxime  or  ceftazidime , which should  be continued until there is a sustained improvement in symptoms.  Patients with repeated isolates despite the above measures should  receive continuous oral antibiotics chosen according to sensitivities.  • Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  Once isolates are identified, aggressive  treatment must be initiated to delay chronic colonization. Strategies  for the  first isolation  of  P. aeruginosa  include: a)  oral ciprofloxacin  750 mg twice daily plus  nebulized colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily or  tobramycin / gentamicin  for 3 weeks; a  2-week course of IV antipseudomonal antibiotics is given, delay- ing the introduction of continuous antibiotic inhalation until sub- sequent positive cultures  or  b) combined use of  nebulized colomycin  plus  gentamicin  or  tobramycin , followed by intensive oral or IV antibiotic therapy.  The exact duration of therapy is controversial. Many prescribe a  3-month course. Management of  chronic infection  varies and includes a regular IV  antibiotic, irrespective of clinical state. Antimicrobial sensitivities  should be checked regularly for appropriate therapy. a) A  β -lactam  in combination with an  aminoglycoside  is recom-  mended as first-line in patients colonized with  P. aeruginosa .  Treatments should be given for 10–14 days but may need to be  continued for longer if the patient has persistent symptoms.  b)  Combination therapy  reduces antibiotic resistance and can  produce synergistic effects.  c)  Oral ciprofloxacin  can be used to treat mild exacerbation but is  not sufficient as monotherapy if there is concomitant  Staph. aureus infection.  Nebulized antipseudomonal antibiotic treatment , such as  tobramycin  300 mg nebulized 12-hourly for 28 days, alternating  with 28 days off, decreases  P .  aeruginosa  colonization. Many patients receive IV antibiotics at home, although a test dose  is usually given in hospital first.  Colomycin  1–2 MU twice daily   can cause bronchoconstriction, so a test dose should always be  given.   Long-term management. Azithromycin  500 mg orally results in   improved lung function and reduced exacerbations in patients   colonized with  P. aeruginosa . It has immunomodulatory and anti- inflammatory actions.  thickening due to inflammation and airway destruction. In addition, bron- chial hyper-reactivity is common. An improvement in FEV1 can be seen in  response to  β2 agonists such as  salbutamol  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily. Beta2agonists are also helpful prior to physiotherapy to facilitate clearance of  airway secretions. Long-acting  β2 agonists should be reserved for patients  who show clear benefit. Antimuscarinics, such as  inhaled ipratropium  bromide  2–4 puffs 2–4 times daily, can also be used.  Corticosteroids.  Corticosteroids, e.g.  prednisolone  20 mg daily, can be   helpful in patients with recurrent wheeze. Alternate-day prednisolone  at a dose of 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg improves lung function over 24  months.  Side-effects  (p. 585) are many, so oral corticosteroids are not  recommended for routine use. They are useful in patients with allergic  bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (a common complication of CF) or  resistant bronchospasm and in patients who are profoundly ill and not  responding to maximal therapy. Osteopenia (p. 324) prophylaxis is  given.  Recombinant DNase.  DNase can be used to decrease sputum viscosity  by cleaving long strands of DNA into smaller ones. The usual dose is  dornase alfa  2500 U (2.5 mg) once daily via a jet nebulizer. The most  common  side-effect  is voice alteration; others include pharyngitis, lar- yngitis, conjunctivitis and chest pain.   Hypertonic saline.  Short-term studies have shown benefit from inhaled  hypertonic saline in concentrations of up to 7%. Beta2 agonists should  be inhaled prior to administration to limit bronchospasm.   N-acetylcysteine.  Although this can reduce sputum viscosity, there are  no RCTs that show benefit from its use.   NIV.  This may be used to improve symptoms in chronic respiratory  failure or as a bridge to lung transplantation. There is no evidence of a  survival benefit.   Lung transplantation.  In CF FEV1 can be used as a predictor of mortal-  ity. Once FEV1 is  <  30% predicted, mean survival is about 2 years and  patients should be referred to a specialized unit for assessment for lung  transplantation.  Haemoptysis,  which is usually mild, is common during exacerbations  but massive haemoptysis also occurs (see Box 13.1).  Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis  does not seem to affect  the clinical course of most patients without an allergic component. A  four-fold rise in total serum IgE, associated with IgG precipitins to  Aspergillus  and large fleeting changes on the CXR, favour allergic   bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  Treatment  is with  corticosteroids .  The role of  itraconazole  remains controversial; however, some trans- plant centres recommend its use for the suppression of  Aspergillus  prior  to transplantation.   Pneumothorax  should be treated in the conventional way (p. 529).  Pleural stripping procedures to prevent recurrence may be a contrain- dication to subsequent lung transplantation.  Gastrointestinal disease Pancreatic enzyme supplements.  Pancreatic enzyme supplements  (enteric-coated microspheres and mini-tablets) contain lipase, protease  and amylase, and are taken with meals and snacks. Most adults take  4–8 tablets with main meals and 2–4 tablets with snacks; however, they  learn to adjust the dosage to achieve normal stools.  Pancreatin  is  available in a number of different strengths depending on the amount  of lipase in the preparation (e.g. 10 000, 25 000 and 40 000 units). Large- bowel strictures have been associated with these high-strength prepara- tions. Increasing the jejunal pH with a protein pump inhibitor or an H2antagonist can improve absorption.   Nutrition.  Patients should eat a normal healthy diet with a high calorie  intake. If they are unable to maintain an adequate weight, overnight  enteral feeding via a gastrostomy or naso-gastric tube can be used. Good  nutritional status (multi-vitamin preparation daily) is associated with  an improved prognosis and dietitians should be involved.  Vitamin  supplementation  is given with  fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K 10 mg daily. Iron-deficient patients should receive iron.   Distal intestinal obstruction (DIOS).  DIOS can be treated with a naso- gastric tube for decompression, IV fluids, correction of electrolytes, and  a combination of enemas and laxatives. Mineral oil and fleet enemas  may be used initially, as may oral laxatives such as  senna  and  lactulose .  In severe cases,  gastrograffin  or  N-acetylcysteine  is given orally or  naso-gastrically and as an enema. Surgery is sometimes required. As  DIOS is a recurring condition, the patient is given regular pancreatic  supplements and regular laxatives once symptoms are relieved.  Ursodeoxycholic acid  leads to clinical and biochemical improvement  but does not modify the course of chronic liver disease.   Gallstones  may require a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However,  anaesthesia is not without risk due to lung disease.  Diabetes.  Over 65% of patients have glucose intolerance by the age of  25. A blood glucose test should be performed 3-monthly. CF patients  with diabetes are encouraged to eat a high-calorie diet to maintain  growth and weight; insulin should be adjusted accordingly.   Fertility  Women.  Fertility is usually normal and the oral contraceptive pill  works in normal doses. For pregnancy, ideally the FEV1 should be  >  50% predicted and patients with an FEV1<  30% should be advised  against pregnancy. Partners should undergo DNA analysis prior to  conception. Teratogenic drugs should be avoided. Quinolones,  aminoglycosides and DNase should also be avoided.  • Men.  Male patients (98%) are infertile. They should receive seminal  analysis and their partner should have DNA analysis. In vitro ferti- lization using aspiration of sperm and intracytoplasmic gamete injec- tion can be successful.  Physiotherapy and airway clearance techniques.  Physiotherapy  should be performed at least twice a day and increased during exacerba- tions. A number of techniques and devices are employed including  postural drainage with percussion, active cycle of breathing techniques  and ‘huffing’. Mechanical devices are also used, such as flutter valves,  external oscillation thoracic jackets, and low-and high-pressure positive  expiratory pressure devices. Exercise should be used in combination  with physiotherapy, as it can help mobilize secretions and is part of  patients’ pulmonary rehabilitation.   Other therapies  • Sodium chloride tablets.  These may be required in hot weather due  to excess sodium chloride loss in sweat.  • Gene therapy.  This is currently unavailable, mainly due to problems  with vectors and delivery, but may be a treatment of the future.  • Vaccinations.  Patients should receive  pneumococcal polysaccharide  vaccine  0.5 mL IM and a yearly influenza vaccination.  However, the life expectancy of a newborn baby with CF today is about  45–50 years old without gene therapy.  Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways. It has three  characteristics: airway hyper-responsiveness to a wide range of stimuli,  reversible airflow limitation and inflammation of the bronchi. It is more  common in developed countries and the prevalence is increasing, particu- larly in the second decade of life when the disease affects 10–15% of the  population.  predisposition and environmental factors.  Extrinsic asthma  usually occurs  in atopic individuals and is associated with a positive skin prick reaction  to common inhalant allergens.  Late-onset asthma  in adults can be due to  sensitization to chemicals or biological products at work, aspirin intoler- ance or stimulation following  β -adrenoceptor blockers prescribed for  hypertension or angina.  Intrinsic asthma  is often described as ‘late-onset’,  as it usually starts in middle age. However, many patients developing  late-onset asthma have a positive skin prick test and on close questioning  actually had childhood symptoms compatible with asthma.  toms are intermittent, variable, worse at night and provoked by triggers  such as exercise. Cough variant asthma is cough without a wheeze. There   is often a family history of asthma or other atopic disease, such as eczema  or hay fever, and patients often know triggers that worsen symptoms.  nation. If wheeze is not present, the patient is asked to do a forced expira- tory manœuvre, which may provoke an audible wheeze. During an  exacerbation there may be tachypnoea, use of accessory muscles, wheeze  and pulsus paradoxus, but in a severe exacerbation the chest may be silent  (i.e. no airflow). Eczema, hives or allergic rhinitis may be present, indicat- ing other allergic disease. Nasal polyps may be found with or without an  associated history of aspirin sensitivity. Churg–Strauss syndrome  is a triad of asthma (with rhinitis), eosi-  nophilia and systemic vasculitis.  Respiratory function tests  can be normal (if there is no airflow limita-  tion) or show an obstructive airflow picture. There is a reduced FEV1and a proportionally smaller reduction in FVC, resulting in an FEV1:FVC  ratio of  <  75%. The PEFR is also reduced, but variability of PEFR and/ or FEV1 over time is diagnostic of asthma. •  PEFR meters are inexpensive and easy to use, and patients can there-  fore be taught to use them at home. Measurements of PEFR on waking  (prior to taking a bronchodilator) and before bed (after a bronchodila- tor) are useful in showing diurnal variation (see Fig. 13.2). An increase  of 20% in PEFR after inhalation of a short-acting  β -agonist, e.g.  400 mcg of  salbutamol  via a metered dose inhaler or after a trial or  oral steroids ( prednisolone  30 mg/day for 14 days), occurs in asthma.  Patients with severe chronic asthma may have little reversibility.  •  Patients should be encouraged to keep PEFR diaries. Those with   possible occupational asthma should record PEFR for at least 2 weeks  at work and 2 weeks off work.  • Exercise tests  show a reduction in PEF or FEV1 after 6 mins exercise.   Histamine or methacholine bronchial provocation tests  can be used  to indicate the presence of bronchial hyper-responsiveness.   Blood and sputum tests  may reveal increased eosinophils ( >  0.4  × 109/L) and total IgE in the peripheral blood, indicating an allergic ten- dency. Eosinophils may also be elevated in the sputum. Radioaller- gosorbent tests (RAST) measure minute quantities of IgE antibody in  the blood, which are specifically directed at particular antigens.  However, they are expensive and less sensitive than skin prick tests.   CXR  shows no characteristic features. It is done at diagnosis and always  in a severe exacerbation to exclude a pneumothorax.   Skin prick tests  should be performed in all cases to try to identify an  allergic cause. Allergen provocation tests are useful if occupational  asthma is suspected.   Exhaled nitric oxide measurement  indicates the degree of inflamma-  tion and is used as a test for the efficacy of corticosteroids.  and restoration of normal or best possible lung function with minimal  side-effects from medication, minimal absences from work or school, and   no limitation on physical activity. In children treatment is to enable a  normal growth pattern to occur.  Patient educationPatients and their families should be given information about the condi- tion. Clinicians should regularly check their patients’ inhaler technique  and should teach patients to use a PEFR metre. Patients should learn to  recognize signs of poor control, such as increasing need for short-acting  β -agonists, increasing breathlessness on exertion and waking at night with  symptoms.Primary prophylaxisThere are currently no recommendations on pre-natal or post-natal   allergen avoidance . Breast feeding should be encouraged, as there is  an association with reduced infant wheeze. Microbial exposure — the  ‘hygiene hypothesis’ — suggests that early exposure to microbial products  may prevent allergic disease such as asthma by switching off allergic  responses. There is currently no good evidence for this. Smoking during  pregnancy and after the child is born is associated with increased infant  wheeze.Secondary prophylaxis Allergen avoidance.  Measures should be taken to avoid causative aller-  gens, such as pets, mould and certain foods, as this may be helpful in  reducing the severity of disease. Measures to avoid house dust mites  have been shown to be ineffectual. In observational studies asthma  symptoms have improved after removal of a pet from the house.  Aspirin, other NSAIDs and  β -blockers should not be used.   Smoking.  Active and passive smoking should be avoided.  Weight reduction.  This is recommended in overweight asthma patients  to improve symptoms.   The mainstay of treatment for asthma involves the use of inhaled thera-  pies that are delivered as aerosols or powders directly into the lung;  thus first-pass metabolism is avoided and unwanted systemic effects are  minimized.    Asthma treatment involves a stepwise approach, enabling patients and   doctors to increase or decrease medication according to symptoms  (Table 13.4). This approach is based on the appreciation that asthma is  an inflammatory disease and that anti-inflammatory drugs should be  started, even in mild cases. Short-acting bronchodilator therapy should  be used to relieve breakthrough symptoms only. Increasing use of short- acting therapy implies deteriorating uncontrolled disease and the need  to step up therapy. Treatment is stepped down if control is good.  β2 agonist, such as a salbutamol inhaler 100–200 mcg (1–2 puffs), as  required. Beta2 agonists should only be used for breakthrough symptoms  and are a useful guide to changes in severity of asthma. If a patient is using  two or more canisters of a  β2 agonist a month ( >  10–12 puffs a day), this  suggests poorly controlled disease. Beta2 agonists are very effective for  symptom relief but have no effect on underlying disease.  Table 13.3   Drugs used in asthma*  Drug Regimen  Inhaled drugs  Inhaled short-acting  β2 agonists  100 mcg per puff (metered dose) Take 2 puffs as required  Salbutamol (called albuterol  in USA) Aerosol and powder  preparations available  500 mcg per puff Up to 4 times daily as required  Terbutaline Powder and nebulized  solutions available  Inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist  12 mcg twice daily Up to 24 mcg twice daily  Formoterol Powder and aerosol  formulations available  Salmeterol 50 mcg (2 puffs or 1 blister) twice daily Up to 100 mcg (4 puffs or 2 blisters)  twice daily  Inhaled corticosteroids  Beclometasone dipropionate Dry (in blisters) and aerosol  preparations  50, 100 or 200 mcg per metered dose 100–400 mcg twice daily, rising to  0.4–1 mg twice daily  100, 200, 400 mcg per metered dose 100–800 mcg twice daily  Budesonide Powder or aerosol  preparations  Fluticasone propionate 50 mcg metered dose (powder) and  125 mcg (aerosol) 100–500 mcg twice daily  Mometasone furoate 200–400 mcg (powder) as a single dose  in evening or in 2 divided doses  Compound inhaled long-acting  β2 agonist and inhaled corticosteroids  Budesonide and formoterol  100/6 combination 1–2 puffs, up to 4 puffs daily  (combinations in higher concentrations  available 200/6 and 400/12)  Fluticasone and salmeterol  100, 250 or 500 mcg 50 mcg 1–2 puffs twice daily  Other inhaled preventer therapy  Antimuscarinic  bronchodilators Ipratropium bromide Tiotropium  (Aerosol 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily) (Nebulized solutions 250–500 mcg 3–4  times daily) 18 mcg (powder) once daily 2.5 mcg (solution) 2 puffs once daily  Sodium cromoglicate 10 mg (2 puffs) 4–8 times daily  Nedocromil sodium 2 puffs (4 mg) 2–4 times daily  499  Table 13.3  Continued  Drug Regimen  Oral agents  Leukotriene modifiers  Montelukast 10 mg once daily (evening)  Zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily  Theophylline  Theophylline modified  release  200–400 mg every 12 hours (tablets) 250–500 every 12 hours (capsules)  Aminophylline 225 mg (tablets) twice daily, rising to  450 mg twice daily if necessary  Corticosteroids  Prednisolone 5 mg tablets 30–60 mg daily for acute asthma attack  β2 agonists  Salbutamol 2–4 mg 3–4 times daily  Terbutaline 2.5 mg 3 times daily  Specialist centres only  Steroid-sparing agents,   e.g. methotrexate,  ciclosporin  Ipratropium bromide , an antimuscarinic bronchodilator, is used for   short-term relief in chronic asthma 20–40 mcg 3–4 times daily by inhaler.  β2agonist more than 3 times a week, if they have nocturnal symptoms more  than once a week, or if they have had an exacerbation in the last 2 years  requiring systemic corticosteroids or nebulized bronchodilators.  Inhaled corticosteroids  are the most effective preventers. The usual  starting dose for  beclometasone dipropionate  is 100–400 mcg twice  daily. The dose should be titrated to the lowest possible that controls  symptoms. When changing between  beclometasone dipropionate  and  budesonide , a 1 : 1 ratio should be assumed.  Fluticasone  100–500 mcg  twice daily,  mometasone  200–400 mcg as a single dose and  ciclesonide 80–320 mcg daily as a single dose are also available. Inhaled steroids  are the first-line preventer therapy.   Sodium cromoglicate and nedocromil sodium  prevent activation of  many inflammatory cells, especially mast cells, eosinophils and epithe- lial cells. It is difficult to predict who will benefit from them, but they  are less effective ‘preventers’ than inhaled corticosteroids.  Sodium cro- moglicate  is given by aerosol inhalation 10 mg (2 puffs) 4 times a day,  increased to 6–8 times a day in severe cases. The dose of  nedocromil  sodium  is 4 mg (2 puffs) daily.  Leukotriene receptor antagonists  inhibit the cysteinyl L1 receptor,  one of the principal asthma mediators. They may be beneficial in   Table 13.4   The stepwise management of asthma  Step PEFR Treatment  1  Occasional   100%  predicted As-required short-acting  β2agonists If used more than once daily, move to  step 2  symptoms,  less frequent  than daily  2  Daily   symptoms ≤  80%  predicted Regular inhaled preventer therapy Anti-inflammatory drugs: inhaled  low-dose corticosteroids up to  800 mcg daily. LTRAs, theophylline  and sodium cromoglicate are less  effective If not controlled, move to step 3  3  Severe   symptoms  50–80%  predicted Inhaled corticosteroids and  long-acting inhaled  β2 agonist Continue inhaled corticosteroid Add regular inhaled LABA If still not controlled, add either LTRA,  modified-release oral theophylline or  β2 agonist If not controlled, move to step 4  4  Severe   symptoms  uncontrolled  with high-dose  inhaled  corticosteroids  50–80%  predicted High-dose inhaled corticosteroid  and regular bronchodilators Increase high-dose inhaled  corticosteroids up to 2000 mcg daily Plus regular LABAs Plus either LTRA or modified-release  theophylline or  β2 agonist  5  Severe   symptoms  deteriorating  ≤  50%  predicted Regular oral corticosteroids Add prednisolone 40 mg daily to   step 4  6  Severe   Hospital admission  ≤  30%  predicted  symptoms  deteriorating  in spite of  prednisolone  particularly if used in addition to an inhaled corticosteroid.  Montelu- kast  10 mg daily in the evening and  zafirlukast  20 mg twice daily are  the most common leukotriene receptor antagonists used.  Theophylline  is a bronchodilator and sustained-release preparations  are used in combination with inhaled corticosteroids in some cases   of asthma. Modified release theophyllines include  Slo-Phyllin 250–500 mg,  Nuelin SA  250–500 mg and  Uniphyllin Continus  200– 400 mg, all 12-hourly. Brand names must be stated on prescription.   Theophyllines have a narrow therapeutic window and interact with a  number of other drugs. Plasma levels should be between 10 and  20 mg/L for optimal response.  good compliance, a trial of add-on therapy is used, instead of increasing  inhaled corticosteroid dose. The add-on therapy of choice is a long-acting  β2-agonist (LABA); when used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids, these  agents have been shown to improve lung function and symptoms in symp- tomatic patients taking low- and moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroids.  Choices include  salmeterol  50 mcg (2 puffs) twice daily, increased up to  100 mcg (4 puffs) twice daily in severe disease, or  formoterol  12 mcg 1–2  times daily, increased to 24 mcg daily in more severe disease. If there is  an improvement but there are still symptoms, the LABA should be con- tinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to 800 mcg a day.  LABAs and inhaled corticosteroids can be given as  combination therapy ,  which is more convenient for the patient. A combination of  fluticasone  and  salmeterol  and a combination of  budesonide  and  formoterol  are available.  If there is no improvement in symptoms after addition of a LABA, it   should be discontinued and the inhaled corticosteroid dose increased to  800 mcg daily. If control is still inadequate, one of the following is added:  leukotriene receptor antagonists ,  modified-release oral theophylline  or  modified-release oral  β2 agonist .  β2 agonist as required, moderate-dose inhaled corticosteroid 800 mcg  daily and add-on therapy (usually a LABA), one of the following can   be used:   Increase inhaled corticosteroids to 2000 mcg a day (monitor for   side-effects).    Do a 6-week sequential trial of one of the following: leukotriene receptor   antagonist, modified-release oral theophylline or modified-release oral  β2 agonist.    If the trial is ineffective, stop the medication; if inhaled corticosteroid is   used, reduce to the original dose.   is the oral corticosteroid of choice and should be used at the  lowest dose that controls symptoms. Patients taking long-term steroids or  3–4 courses a year are at increased risk of side-effects (p. 324). Patients  receiving steroids for more than 3 months should be prescribed a long- acting  bisphosphonate  to prevent osteoporosis. BP and blood glucose  should be checked regularly. Methods of trying to decrease oral steroids  include maximizing other therapy and using maximal doses of inhaled  corticosteroids. Immunosuppressants (steroid-sparing agents), such as  methotrexate ,  ciclosporin  or  oral gold , can be tried for 3 months.  their therapy. This should be done slowly and, where possible, the patient  should be maintained on the lowest dose of inhaled steroid that controls  symptoms. Reduction should be considered every 3 months and the  steroid dose should be reduced by 25–50% each time.  omalizumab ) that form  complexes with free IgE, blocking its interaction with mast cells and  basophils, have been developed. However, although clinical trials have  shown benefit in patients with severe asthma despite corticosteroids, oma- lizumab is not regularly prescribed. Omalizumab is given subcutaneously  2–4 times weekly.  recognition and prevention. Patients should have an action plan and know  how to identify the onset of an exacerbation. The signs of an onset include  worsening PEFR, increasing symptoms or greater use of inhaled short- acting  β2 agonists. Patients should, at this stage, avoid precipitating factors,  use inhaled  β2 agonists for symptom relief and start on a course of oral  corticosteroids. If there is no improvement or they are getting worse, they  should immediately seek medical help.  tightness or cough. Those at increased risk of severe acute exacerbations  of asthma can be identified in the history. Previous near-fatal asthma  attacks requiring ICU admission, previous hospital admissions within the  last year, previous attacks requiring corticosteroids, a need for three or  more classes of drug for asthma, increased use of  β2 agonists (more than 2  canisters a month), known brittle asthma and repeated A&E attendance  within the last year indicate patients who are at risk. Patients who are  non-compliant with treatment, fail to attend hospital appointments,  usually self-discharge from hospital or have any psychological or behav- ioural illness are also at risk of developing severe exacerbations of asthma.  Moderate asthma exacerbation  involves:  •  PEFR 50–75% predicted •  increasing symptoms •  no signs of acute severe or life-threatening asthma.   Acute severe asthma  typically involves one of:  •  PEF 33–50% predicted or best •  inability to complete a sentence in one breath •  respiratory rate  >  25 breaths/min •  tachycardia  >  110 bpm.   Life-threatening asthma  has features including:  •  PEF  <  33% predicted or best •  a silent chest •  cyanosis •  feeble respiratory effort •  exhaustion, confusion or coma •  bradycardia or hypotension •  normal  P aCO2 (4.6–6 kPa) • S pO2<  92% or  P aO2<  8 kPa.  CXR  should be performed to exclude a pneumothorax or consolidation.  PEFR  is used to stratify patients according to disease severity (see  above), and to inform decisions as to intensity of treatment and whether   patients should be treated in hospital or at home. Measurements should  be repeated regularly to gauge response to therapy. Normal values vary  according to size and age but a peak flow  <  200 usually indicates severe  airflow obstruction. Often patients with exacerbations are too breathless  to perform a PEFR.   ABGs  should be measured in patients requiring hospital admission who  have oxygen saturations  <  92% or features of acute severe or life- threatening asthma. A normal  P aCO2 is a sign of life-threatening asthma  and impending respiratory failure, possibly requiring endotracheal  intubation and mechanical ventilation.   Pulse oximetry  should be used to monitor oxygen saturations through-  out admission.   Assess the patient. Tachycardia, a high respiratory rate and an inability   to speak in sentences indicate a severe attack.    Apply  high-flow oxygen  (usually 40–60%), to maintain saturation  >  92%.   If PEFR is  <  150 L/min (in adults), administer  nebulized salbutamol  5 mg or  terbutaline  10 mg — driven via oxygen. (Use a low-reading  meter, as ordinary meters measure from 60 L/min upwards.)    Give 200 mg  IV hydrocortisone  or  prednisolone  40–50 mg orally. In severe asthma not responding to the initial nebulizer :   Repeat the  salbutamol  or  terbutaline nebulizer  at 15–30 min intervals   or give continuous nebulization of  salbutamol  at 5–10 mg/hour (a  special nebulizer is required).    Add nebulized  ipratropium bromide  0.5 mg 4–6-hourly to the neb-  ulized  salbutamol / terbutaline .    Measure ABGs; if  P aCO2 is  >  7 kPa, consider ventilation. If  P aCO2 is  normal, monitor closely, as mechanical ventilation may be required.    Take a CXR to exclude pneumothorax.   If there is no improvement,  magnesium sulphate  IV 1.2–2 g over   20 mins,  salbutamol  IV 3–20 mcg/min,  terbutaline  IV 1.5–5 mcg/min  or  aminophylline  loading dose (if not on maintenance oral therapy)  5 mg/kg over 20 mins, followed by a maintenance dose of 0.5 mg/kg/ hour can be used.   Corticosteroids.  Steroid therapy is given to reverse the underlying  airway inflammation. It is associated with an improved outcome in  exacerbations of asthma and should be given as early as possible (Fig.  13.2).  IV steroids (hydrocortisone  400 mg daily in 4 divided doses) are  usually given. Oral steroids (prednisolone 40–50 mg daily) are as effec- tive, provided the patient is able to swallow. Oral steroids should be  continued until resolution of acute symptoms and a return to usual  daily activities, and until a PEFR within 80% of the patient’s best or  predicted has been obtained. They do not need to be tapered if the  course is shorter than 3 weeks, provided patients are on an appropriate  dose of inhaled corticosteroids.   Antibiotics.  There is no evidence that antibiotics are beneficial, as exac-  erbations are usually caused by viruses. Antibiotics should be reserved  for cases where bacteria are cultured from the sputum or blood, or there  is consolidation on CXR.  IV fluids and correction of electrolytes.  Many patients are dehydrated  and require fluid replacement. They may develop hypokalaemia due to  β2 agonists and this should be corrected.  30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30  500  400  300  PEFR (L/min)  200  100  MNE MNE  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13  Day  Helium oxygen mixtures.  These can be useful in exacerbations of  asthma although evidence is lacking.   Intensive care.  Patients should be referred to ICU for possible endotra-  cheal intubation and mechanical ventilation if they are not responding  to treatment, i.e. there is persistent hypoxia, hypercapnia, confusion,  drowsiness, deteriorating PEFR, increasing acidosis or respiratory  arrest. NIV is not usually used in patients with severe exacerbations of  asthma and should only be in an HDU/ICU setting.  and may not require hospital admission. Their regular treatment should  be increased and they should commence a 2-week course of oral pred- nisolone. If they are safe to discharge, follow-up must be arranged. Hospitalized patients should be established on a drug regimen that they  can safely take at home, and have a PEFR  >  75% best or predicted and a  diurnal variation of  <  25% prior to discharge. Follow-up by a respiratory  physician should be arranged.  suddenly develop severe asthma attacks and are at risk of sudden death.  These patients require a detailed management plan for an exacerbation.  On developing a wheeze they should go immediately to the nearest hos- pital and may require admission straight to ICU. Oxygen, resuscitation  equipment, prednisolone 60 mg and nebulized  β2 agonists should be kept  at home and at work. Patients should wear a MedicAlert bracelet and carry  two self-injectable 0.3 mg  adrenaline (epinephrine)  syringes with them at  all times.  classified by site (e.g. lobar, diffuse, bronchopneumonia) or by aetiological  agent (e.g. bacterial, viral, fungal, aspiration, or due to radiotherapy or   allergic mechanisms). Pneumonias can be community-acquired (CAP;  commonest  Strep. pneumoniae ), hospital-acquired (often Gram-negative  bacteria) or ventilator-associated (p. 548).  parainfluenza viruses. Precipitating factors include cigarette smoking,  alcohol excess, bronchiectasis, bronchial obstruction (e.g. carcinoma) or  inhalation from oesophageal obstruction. IV drug users can contract a  Staph. aureus  infection and patients who are immunosuppressed (e.g. those  having AIDS or receiving treatment with cytotoxic agents) develop pneu- monia; the organisms include  Pneumocystis jiroveci ,  Mycobacterium avium  intracellulare  and cytomegalovirus.  cillin (see Fig. 13.4) but they should be reviewed at 48 hours. If the   mild case has not improved or CAP is very severe, the patient should   be admitted to hospital. There is a significant mortality, particularly in  those over 65 years old. Overall mortality for those admitted to hospital is  about 5%. Strep. pneumoniae  accounts for the majority of cases and for two-thirds  of the mortality.  state of the patient. Following a radiological (Fig. 13.3) and microbiological (if possible)  diagnosis of the pneumonia, an early assessment of the severity of the  pneumonia must be made in order to admit the patient to a medical ward  or to ICU. The CURB-65 (Box 13.3) is a useful guide for doing this. Referral to ICU  will be necessary if there is a failure to respond with a  CURB-65 score of over 3 or if there is progressive hypercapnia, persistent  hypoxia, severe acidosis, shock and depression of consciousness.   should have the following:  CXR.  Repeat the CXR 6 weeks after discharge unless complications  occur. • Strep. pneumoniae.  Consolidation can lag behind clinical signs. • Mycoplasma.  Usually one lobe is involved but infection can be  bilateral.  • Legionella .  There is lobar and then multi-lobar shadowing, with the  occasional small pleural effusion. Cavitation is rare.   Blood tests.  FBC, U&E, LFTs and CRP.  • Strep. pneumoniae .  White cell count is  >  15  ×  109/L (90% polymor-  phonuclear leucocytosis); ESR  >  100 mm/hour; CRP  >  100 mg/L.  • Mycoplasma .  White cell count is usually normal. • Legionella .  There is lymphopenia without marked leucocytosis,  hyponatraemia, hypoalbuminaemia and high serum levels of liver  aminotransferases.    Other tests   Sputum culture. •  Blood culture. •  Pulse oximetry and ABG analysis.  Table 13.5   Clinical features of community-acquired pneumonia  Pneumonia Clinical features  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  Patient is ill with a high temperature (39.5°C). Dry  cough becomes productive, with rusty-coloured  sputum after 1–2 days. Labial herpes simplex.  Breathlessness. Pleuritic pain. Crackle and wheezes  with signs of consolidation and pleural rub. CXR is  shown in Fig. 13.3  Mycoplasma  pneumoniae  Common in young. Cycles of 3–4 years. Headaches  and malaise often precede chest symptoms by 1–5  days. Rare extrapulmonary complications include  myocarditis, pericarditis, erythema multiforme,  haemolytic anaemia, meningoencephalitis. Recovery  usually in 10–14 days. Can be protracted, with  cough and X-ray changes lasting for weeks; relapses  occur. Lung abscesses and pleural effusions rare  Legionella  pneumophila  Sporadic or in outbreaks in e.g. hotels or foreign  travel, or in immunocompromised. Middle to old  age. Males  >  females 2 : 1. Incubation period 2–10  days. Malaise, myalgia, headache, fever (up to  40°C), rigors. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea,  abdominal pain. Can be acutely ill with mental  confusion and other neurological signs. Haematuria,  occasional renal failure and deranged liver function  tests. Breathlessness with initially dry cough, which  can become productive and purulent. CXR slow to  resolve  Viral  pneumonias  Uncommon in adults — influenza A virus or  adenovirus infection is commonest cause. May  predispose patients to bacterial pneumonia Cytomegalovirus pneumonia is seen in  immunocompromised patients (p. 3) Influenza A (H5N1) (p. 50) Management is as for ARDS (p. 549)  Other pneumonias  Haemophilus  influenzae  Frequent cause of exacerbation of chronic bronchitis  and can cause pneumonia in COPD patients.  Pneumonia is diffuse or confined to one lobe. No  special features to separate it from other bacterial  pneumonias  Staphylococcus  aureus  Rarely causes pneumonia, except after preceding  influenzal viral illness. Patients are very ill. Patchy  consolidation in one or more lobes, which break  down to form abscesses. Pneumothorax, effusion  and empyemas are frequent. Septicaemia develops  with metastatic abscesses in other organs  507  Table 13.5  Continued  Pneumonia Clinical features  Staphylococcal  septicaemia  Areas of pneumonia (septic infarcts) frequently seen  in IV drug users, and in patients with central  catheters being used for parenteral nutrition.  Infected puncture site is source of staphylococcus.  Pulmonary symptoms often few but breathlessness  and cough occur and CXR reveals areas of  consolidation. Abscess formation is frequent  Specific tests  for individual organisms are as follows:   Pneumococcal antigen  •  Counter-immunoelectrophoresis (CIE) of sputum, urine and serum   is 3–4 times more sensitive than sputum or blood cultures.  • Urinary antigen test  detects C-polysaccharide. This is rapid and  unaffected by antibiotics; sensitivity is 65–80% and specificity about  80%.   Legionella  antigen  • Urinary antigen test  detects only serogroup 1, which accounts for  most of these infections. Sensitivity (~80%) and specificity are high  (almost 99%).  • Direct immunofluorescent staining  of organism in the pleural fluid,  sputum or bronchial washings is carried out.   Serum antibodies are less reliable. • Legionella  is not visible on Gram staining. • Culture  on special media is possible but takes up to 3 weeks.  Box 13.3   CURB-65 criteria for the diagnosis of severe  community-acquired pneumonia  •   C onfusion – defined as a mental test score of 8 or less or new   disorientation in time, place or person  •   U rea  >  7 mmol/L •   R espiratory rate  ≥  30/min •   B lood pressure: systolic  <  90 mmHg or diastolic  ≤  60 mmHg •  Age  >  65 years of age Score 0–1 — Treat as outpatient Score 2 — Admit to hospital Score 3 +  — Often require ICU care Mortality rates increase with increasing score  Other markers of severe pneumonia •  CXR — more than one lobe involved •   P aO2<  8 kPa •  Low albumin  <  35 g/L •  White cell count  <  4  ×  109/L or  >  20  ×  109/L •  Blood culture — positive  Retrospective  confirmation can be obtained by demonstrating a four- fold increase in antibody titre in the blood.  •  Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) tests on sputum   samples are becoming available.    Mycoplasma  •  Measure serum antibodies (IgM and IgG) in acute and convalescent   samples.  Cold agglutinins  are present in 50% of cases. Other methods  of identification include complement-fixing antibodies and PCR.  •  A kit for PCR is becoming available. •  NASBA tests are becoming available.   Chlamydia  antibodies  are sought by immunofluorescent complement  fixation.  The patient in hospital should be re-evaluated regularly by the nursing  staff, depending on the severity of the illness (see MEWS, p. 2).  Antibiotic therapy.  Antibiotics should be started as soon as possible,  preferably in the A&E department. The choice of the antibiotic is inevi- tably empirical and directed towards  Strep. pneumoniae , as this is the  commonest organism. Acquired antibiotic resistance is a concern but is  still rare in the UK. • Mild uncomplicated CAP  (CURB-65 0–1) is treated in the community   clarithro- mycin  500 mg twice daily or doxycycline 200 mg followed by 100 mg  daily (if penicillin-sensitive) for 5–7 days. The newer quinolones   (e.g.  levofloxacin  500 mg 1–2 times daily or  moxifloxacin  400 mg  once daily for 10 days) are used by some but increasing resistance is   Clinical features  of pneumonia  Sputum for Gram stain and counter-immunoelectrophoresis Sputum and blood for culture Blood for serological tests  Mild community  acquired Severe community  acquired  Chest X-ray  Treat with  amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily or if allergic to penicillin clarithromycin 500mg 2 times daily  Diffuse or  localized  pneumonia  If no response in 48 hours Chest X-ray and review treatment  IV 6-hourly benzyl penicillin 1.2 g or IV 8-hourly co-amoxiclav 1.2 g and IV clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily  Gram-positive cocci on  stain or  S. aureus  on culture  No  S. aureus  Review clinical progress and results of tests  Add flucloxacillin 1g  IV 6-hourly + sodium  fusidate 500 mg  8-hourly  Oral antibiotics  Adjust antibiotics on clinical progress  a concern and these agents are best reserved for patients with  co-morbidities.  • More severe infections  require  amoxicillin  500 mg–1 g 3 times daily   clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily. If oral therapy is contrain- dicated, IV  amoxicillin  500 mg 3 times daily or benzyl penicillin 1.2 g  4 times daily plus IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice daily is used. In   patients with high severity pneumonia (CURB 65 3–5),  co-amoxiclav 1.2g 6–8-hourly is combined with IV  clarithromycin  500 mg twice  daily.  • If  Staph. aureus  infection is suspected  or is proven on culture, IV  flucloxacillin  1–2 g every 6 hours by slow IV injection or infusion  ± sodium fusidate  500 mg 3 times daily if over 50 kg by IV infusion  should be added. Quinolones are recommended for those intolerant  of penicillins or macrolides. Community-acquired meticillin-resistant  Staph. aureus  (CA-MRSA) can be treated with vancomycin or  linezolid.  • Parenteral antibiotics  should be switched to oral once the tempera-  ture has settled for a period of 24 hours and provided there is no  contraindication to oral therapy.  • Mycoplasma  pneumonia  is treated with a macrolide, e.g.  clarithro-  mycin  500 mg twice daily (or  azithromycin ) for 7–10 days, or a tet- racycline, e.g.  doxycycline  100 mg twice daily.  • H. influenzae  pneumonia  is treated with oral  amoxicillin  500 mg 3   times daily .  • Legionella pneumophila  pneumonia  is usually treated with one of  the macrolides,  azithromycin  being the drug of choice. Quinolones  are also effective and  rifampicin  can be added in very ill patients.  Mortality can be up to 30% in elderly patients but most patients  recover fully.   Oxygen.  All patients with hypoxaemia, acidosis and hypotension  should receive oxygen. The aim is to keep the saturation ( S aO2)  >  92%  and a  P aO2>  8 kPa (60 mmHg). If there is no history of COPD with  hypercapnia, 35% humidified O2 can be given. NIV (p. 485) may be  useful. Criteria for referral to ICU are given above and referral should  not be delayed.   Fluid balance/nutritional support.  Oral intake should encouraged  but, if this is not possible, then IV fluids need to be given. Nutrition   may be a problem for a longer illness and will need to be addressed   (p. 542).   It is commonly treated with  co - amoxiclav  1.2 g 3 times daily but mero-  penem 1 g 3 times daily is also used.    Co-morbidities require more aggressive antibiotic therapy. Manage-  ment is the same as for severe CAP, once appropriate samples for  culture and sensitivities have been taken.    Gram-negative bacteria are common and aminoglycosides (e.g.  gen-  tamicin  5 mg/kg) are often added.    Patients with  chronic chest infection  and others in whom  Pseudomonas infection is suspected should receive an anti-pseudomonal penicillin  (e.g. piperacillin plus tazobactam) or  ciprofloxacin  200–400 mg IV over  30–60 mins or  ceftazidime  2 g bolus IV 8-hourly.   Immunosuppressed patients  may require very high-dose broad- spectrum antibiotics, as well as antifungal and antiviral agents.  Aspiration pneumonia  is relatively common in hospital and usually  involves infection with multiple bacteria, including anaerobes. The oral  route is usually inappropriate in these patients. A combination of  met- ronidazole  (IV or rectal) and  co-amoxiclav  is recommended.  Tuberculosis (TB) is a systemic granulomatous disease caused by  Mycobac- terium tuberculosis . It is more common in developing countries, in particu- lar sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia. However, in the developed  countries, following many years of steady decline, the incidence of TB is  rising due to AIDS, the growing use of immunosuppressive drugs and  increased immigration of people from areas of high endemicity. TB is  transmitted between people by aerosol and therefore the most common  site of infection is the lung.  Primary TB  is the first infection with TB and occurs in those without  immunity. It is usually subpleural and a small lung lesion known as the  Ghon focus may be seen in the mid- or upper zones within 4 weeks of  infection. Hilar lymphadenopathy may be present as the tubercle bacilli  drain into the lymphatics. Primary TB is often asymptomatic; there may  be a mild cough, wheeze or erythema nodosum, and a transient pleural  effusion. The bacilli will continue to proliferate and spread until an  effective cell-mediated immune response is mounted (3–8 weeks), the  spread of infection is arrested and the tuberculin skin test is positive.  Tubercle bacilli remain dormant within calcified lesions but are capable  of reactivation.   Post-primary TB  refers to all forms of TB that occur after the first few  weeks of primary infection when immunity to  Mycobacterium  has devel- oped. It occurs as a result of reactivation of a previously dormant focus  in patients who have infection with HIV, diabetes mellitus, kidney  disease, malnutrition, silicosis, malignancy and other forms of immu- nosuppression.  Common symptoms  include cough (often productive),  fever, night sweats and weight loss.   Disseminated TB  occurs if there is unchecked proliferation and spread  of bacteria due to a failure of the host to mount an effective cell- mediated immune response. Miliary TB is a form of disseminated TB in  which the lesions on CXR resemble millet seeds. TB is an  AIDS-defining illness . It may arise in a patient with HIV from  rapid progression of primary infection, reactivation of disease or  re-infection (p. 115).  Sputum staining.  Acid-fast bacilli in the sputum can be seen by staining  with Ziehl–Neelsen (ZN) stain; alternatively, an auramine-phenol fluo- rescent test is performed. For patients who are unable to expectorate, a  bronchoscopy can be performed and a bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) or  bronchial washing taken from the affected lobe.   Transbronchial biopsies.  These can be obtained for histological and  microbiological assessment. Specimens for microbiology should be  placed in 0.9% saline and not formalin. The presence of granulomas is  virtually diagnostic of TB.   Culture.  Sputum is cultured on Ogawa or Lowenstein–Jensen medium  for 4–8 weeks. Liquid cultures are often used, as they have shorter  culture times. Antibiotic sensitivity should be performed on all  cultures.   Pleural fluid and biopsy.  Pleural fluid culture is positive for  M. tuber-  n about 40% of patients, whereas pleural biopsy culture is posi- tive in about 60% of patients with pleural TB. Pleural fluid adenosine   deaminase is elevated in tuberculous pleural effusions and may aid  diagnosis.   Imaging.  The typical CXR findings are upper lobe infiltrates with or  without cavitations (Fig. 13.5). The infiltrates are often fibronodular and  irregular. CT scans are sensitive at identifying earlier disease and may  show clusters of nodules or a ‘tree in bud’ appearance.  susceptible; drugs must be taken at the appropriate doses and must be  taken regularly; and therapy must be continued for a sufficient period of  time. Treatment can be taken at home. However, patients who are ill, smear- positive, highly infectious (especially with multi-drug resistant TB), non- compliant or those in whom the diagnosis is uncertain may require a short  period of hospitalization.  The initial phase  should consist of four drugs —  rifampicin ,  isoniazid and  pyrazinamide  plus  ethambutol  or rarely  streptomycin  for 2  months. Ethambutol can be omitted in patients who are thought to be  at low risk for isoniazid resistance. This regimen is for patients with  previously untreated TB, who are HIV-negative, are not immunosup- pressed and have not been in contact with anyone with drug-resistant  TB. Neither should they have come from an area with a high prevalence  of drug-resistant TB. The drugs are best given as a combination prepara- tion to aid compliance.  The continuation phase  starts after drug sensitivities are known (6–8  weeks) and should consist of two drugs to which the organism is sus- ceptible, given for a further 4 months.  Rifampicin  and  isoniazid  are   usually standard treatment for adults with pulmonary TB (for doses see  p. 87).  Pyridoxine  10 mg daily is not routinely required but should be  given as prophylaxis against isoniazid neuropathy in patients at  increased risk, such as diabetics, alcoholics and those with dietary  deficiencies.   Directly observed therapy (DOT)  is used for patients who are unlikely  to be compliant with treatment, such as the homeless, those dependent  on alcohol and IV drug users. Special clinics are used and patients are  observed taking their tablets. Some clinics use incentives such as free  meals and cash payments to improve attendance. DOT can be given  daily but intermittent regimens such as 3 times weekly are often more  convenient. However, the effectiveness of DOT therapy is variable and  compliance is still an issue. For doses, see p. 87.  streptomycin should be avoided. Patients can breast feed normally whilst  taking anti-tuberculous chemotherapy. Those on anti-tuberculous therapy  containing rifampicin should be informed of the reduced effectiveness of  the oral contraceptive pill.  the treatment is as for pulmonary TB for 6 months but is extended if the  infection is more advanced or extensive. In tuberculous meningitis, isoni- azid and rifampicin are given for 9 months, supplemented with pyrazina- mide, streptomycin or ethambutol for the first 2 months. Adjuvant  corticosteroids for 3 weeks are recommended.   occurs in people exposed to others with drug- resistant organisms.  Secondary drug resistance  is the development of  resistance after initial drug sensitivity and usually occurs as a result of poor  compliance. WHO define two categories of drug resistance:    multi-drug resistance (MDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin   extensive drug resistance (XDR) —  isoniazid ,  rifampicin ,  quinolones and at least one of the following second-line drugs:  capreomycin  and  amikacin . MDR and XDR are major therapeutic problems worldwide, having a high  mortality and occurring mainly in HIV-infected patients. Transmission of  MDR-TB to healthcare workers and to other patients poses a major public  health problem. The drug treatment of suspected drug resistance in both  HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients is as follows:   With MDR use at least three drugs to which the organism is sensitive.   With resistance to one of the four main drugs, use the other three. Therapy should be continued for up to 2 years, or for at least 12 months  after negative cultures in HIV-positive patients. Second-line drugs avail- able for treatment of resistant  M. tuberculosis  infection are  capreomycin ,  cycloserine ,  clarithromycin ,  azithromycin ,  ciprofloxacin ,  ofloxacin ,  kan- amycin ,  amikacin ,  moxifloxacin  and  rifabutin .  sputum examination for acid-fast bacilli with smear and culture. Once   sputum becomes negative for acid-fast bacilli, patients should have a  monthly sputum examination until culture is also negative. This is the  most reliable indicator of a response to therapy. If, after 3 months of treat- ment, symptoms have not resolved or sputum smear or culture is still  positive, either there is non-compliance with medication or drug resistance  has immerged. Specialist TB nurses and health visitors should monitor  patients’ compliance with treatment. If drug resistance occurs, the addition  of a single drug is not recommended. If new drugs are added, at least two  or preferably three should be commenced which the patient has not  already received. Subsequent treatment should be fully supervised.  tion, prior to commencing therapy. They should be informed of the pos- sible side-effects of treatment and the indications for stopping medication  and seeking advice. They should be seen in clinic regularly for the duration  of chemotherapy to ensure symptoms are improving and that there are no  adverse drug reactions. A CXR should be taken at the end of treatment.  radiological evidence and/or symptoms of TB. Latent tuberculous infec- tion is when a patient is asymptomatic, with a normal CXR but a positive  tuberculin skin test. The Mantoux test and whole-blood interferon (IFN)- γ assay are used to check for TB infection (current or past). The Mantoux test  is an intradermal injection of tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD).  A second visit is required for the test to be read (induration  >  10 mm is  positive) at 72 hours. Whole-blood IFN- γ  assay requires only a blood test  and remains negative after bacille Calmette–Guérin (BCG). Chemoprophylaxis consists of  isoniazid 300 mg  daily for 6 months or  isoniazid 300 mg  +  rifampicin 600 mg  daily for 3 months. Chemoprophy- laxis should only be prescribed after active disease has been fully ruled  out. In the USA there are annual screening tests for asymptomatic patients  who are thought to be at high risk and who would benefit from treatment  of latent TB. These include patients with HIV, residents of long-term care  facilities, those with medical conditions that increase the risk of active TB  and people with ongoing contact with patients who may have active TB,  such as healthcare workers. Chemoprophylaxis is used in the following groups of patients:    those with CXR appearances compatible with previous TB who are due   to start immunosuppressive agents, such as anti-tumour necrosis factor  (TNF) α , or treatment that has an immunosuppressive effect, such as  renal dialysis or corticosteroids    tuberculin-positive children identified in the BCG schools programme   who have a history of contact with infectious TB or have been resident  in a country with a high prevalence of TB within the last 2 years    adults between the ages of 16 and 34 found at new immigrant screening   without BCG history    adults with latent TB who have risk factors for progression to active TB   disease including those with documented recent tuberculin conversion,  those with a history of untreated TB, and those with chronic disease and  immunosuppressive disease    close contacts of patients with active disease and a positive tuberculin     patients with HIV who have been in close contact with a person who   has active TB; this should be irrespective of the tuberculin test, as in  HIV there may be a loss of response to tuberculin.  cases at an early stage. All close family members, other individuals who  share a kitchen or bathroom, or close contacts at school or work are  screened. Those with symptoms are thoroughly investigated for TB and  asymptomatic individuals are sent for CXR and a tuberculin skin test.  Diffuse parenchymal lung disorders (DPLD; also known as interstitial lung  disease) are a heterogeneous group of disorders consisting of over 200  entities and accounting for about 15% of respiratory clinical practice. They  are characterized by chronic inflammation and progressive fibrosis of the  pulmonary interstitium.    progressive onset of increasing shortness of breath or a persistent non-  productive cough    pulmonary symptoms associated with another disorder, such as an   autoimmune rheumatic disease    an abnormal CXR or abnormal lung function or spirometry, usually   showing a restrictive defect    rarely, haemoptysis, pleurisy or a pneumothorax.  Signs.  Clubbing suggests idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, DPLD second-  ary to rheumatoid arthritis or asbestosis. Auscultation reveals fine   end-inspiratory or more sporadic crackles and wheezes. There may be  signs of pulmonary hypertension in patients with severe disease, or  extrapulmonary signs, e.g. ocular features in sarcoidosis or vasculitis;  skin disease may suggest a rheumatological disorder; erythema  nodosum sarcoidosis or a mononeuritis multiplex may indicate a  vasculitis.  Routine blood tests  are rarely diagnostic but may aid the process.  • FBC,  including differential, may show anaemia, e.g. chronic disease  (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis), an iron deficiency secondary to alveolar  haemorrhage, or peripheral blood eosinophilia ( >  1.5  ×  109/L) sec- ondary to pulmonary eosinophilia or drug reactions.  • IgE level  is useful to discriminate between chronic forms of pulmo-  nary eosinophilia in which IgE levels will be low and allergic forms.  • Hypercalcaemia  might be present in patients with sarcoidosis. • ACE concentrations  are helpful in monitoring sarcoid treatment,  although raised levels are not diagnostic of sarcoidosis.  • Serological tests. Antinuclear antibodies  may be present in auto-  immune rheumatic diseases. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies  (ANCA) and anti-glomerular basement antibodies point towards a  systemic vasculitis.  Serum precipitins  suggest a hypersensitivity  pneumonitis secondary to farming or pigeon breeding.  Raised ESR and hypergammaglobulinaemia  may be present but are  not diagnostic.   Pulmonary function tests  may be normal initially, but as disease  progresses they show a restrictive pattern: reduction in total lung   capacity (TLC), residual volume (RV), functional residual capacity  (FRC) and flow rate (reduced FEV1 and FVC with a normal or increased  ratio).   ABGs  may be normal or show hypoxia with a respiratory acidosis.  Carbon dioxide retention is unusual until end-stage disease. If ABGs are  normal, exercise assessment must be performed, as arterial oxygenation  frequently falls on exercise.   Imaging  with CXR and high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT)  should be carried out. All radiology should be compared to previous  films if available.   Echocardiography  assesses for pulmonary hypertension and the pres-  ence of cardiac failure that may be contributing to the diffuse shadow- ing on CXR.   ECG  to look for conduction defects, e.g. sarcoidosis.  Bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)  do not usually have  a role in diagnosis or disease monitoring but are helpful if a surgical  biopsy is not possible.   Transbronchial biopsy  taken during bronchoscopy. Biopsies are most  useful in granulomatous diseases, such as sarcoidosis, and malignant  disease, such as lymphangitis carcinomatosis.   Lung biopsy  is frequently required when the diagnosis remains  uncertain.   Surgical biopsy  can be obtained from more than one site, guided  by the HRCT results. Two approaches are commonly used: video- assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) or a limited thoracotomy. VATS  is preferred, as it is less invasive and is associated with lower morbidity  and mortality.  tion and radiological changes is needed in order to follow progression of  disease and response to therapy.  and pulmonary oedema should be excluded. Histological confirmation is  required in most cases prior to commencement of specific treatment. In  general, drug regimens usually include corticosteroids,  azathioprine, cyclophosphamide  or  mycophenolate .   This multi-system granulomatous disorder of unknown aetiology   usually presents with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, pulmonary  infiltrations, and skin and eye lesions.    It commonly affects young adults, particularly women, with the peak   incidence in the third and fourth decades.    More than 90% of patients have involvement of the lungs and thoracic   lymph nodes.    The most common presentation is with respiratory symptoms, such as   (50%).    Peripheral lymphadenopathy occurs in 5%, fatigue or weight loss in 5%,   and fever in 4%.    Extrapulmonary manifestations include:  •  skin disorders: erythema nodosum, lupus pernio — 10% •  ocular lesions: anterior uveitis, posterior uveitis, conjunctivitis,   retinal lesions, uveoparotid fever (bilateral uveitis, parotid enlarge- ment with occasional development of facial nerve palsy) and kerato- conjunctivitis sicca  •  metabolic manifestations: hypercalcaemia (10% of cases) and hyper-  calciuria, which can result in the development of renal calculi and  nephrocalcinosis  •  CNS disorders: rare — 2%; can cause chronic meningoencephalitis,   spinal cord lesions, cranial nerve palsies, polyneuropathy and  myopathy  •  bone and joint involvement: arthralgia and bone cysts •  hepatosplenomegaly •  cardiac involvement: rare (3%), including arrhythmias, conduction   defects and cardiomyopathy with congestive cardiac failure.  CXR  characteristically shows bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy (BHL).  The differential diagnosis for BHL includes lymphoma, TB, enlarged  pulmonary arteries, metastatic carcinoma and histoplasmosis. There   are four stages of pulmonary involvement based on the radiological  stage of the disease. The stage of disease provides prognostic  information. • Stage I:  BHL alone • Stage II:  BHL with pulmonary infiltrates • Stage III:  pulmonary infiltrates without BHL • Stage IV:  fibrosis.   HRCT chest  shows enlarged hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes, and  diffuse lung involvement with nodules along the bronchi and blood  vessels and in sub-pleural regions. There is beading and irregular thick- ening of broncho-vascular bundles and bronchial wall thickening.  Fibrosis and traction bronchiectasis occur late in the disease.   Other investigations  are as for DPLD. The tuberculin test is negative in  80% of cases but is of no diagnostic value. Serum ACE is raised in 75%  of cases.  Patients with no symptoms,  normal lung function and only hilar lym-  phadenopathy on CXR (stage I) require no treatment. Spontaneous   resolution commonly occurs within a year or two of diagnosis.   Corticosteroids  are the mainstay of treatment for patients with  infiltrates on CXR and abnormal lung function (stages II and III)   and those with chronic progressive disease (stage IV). Systemic   steroids should also be prescribed for ophthalmic symptoms not  responding to topical steroids, cardiac or neurological symptoms, and  hypercalcaemia. • Prednisolone  is usually started at 30 mg a day for 6 weeks and, in   10 mg a day or alternate-day treatment. Treatment should be contin- ued for a minimum of 1 year, keeping patients on the lowest possible  dose that controls symptoms.  •  Severe or persistent erythema nodosum and uveoparotid fever due   to sarcoid will respond to a 2-week course of prednisolone 5–15 mg  daily.  •  Topical steroids can be beneficial for skin lesions, uveitis/iritis and   nasal polyps. There is no clear evidence for the benefit of inhaled  steroids.   Ophthalmic reviews  are carried out regularly for patients with eye  signs, as uveitis can occasionally lead to blindness.   Other forms of treatment  clearly benefit some patients and drugs can  be useful as steroid-sparing agents, although the evidence remains  unclear.  Methotrexate  can be prescribed in chronic or refractory sarcoid  at a dose of 10–25 mg once a week.  Side-effects  include gastrointestinal  symptoms, hepatotoxicity, pulmonary oedema, interstitial pneumonitis  and pulmonary fibrosis.  Hydroxychloroquine  can be used in acute and  chronic disease at a dose of 200–400 mg/day.  Side-effects  include gas- trointestinal disturbances, visual changes and retinal damage, headache  and skin reactions.  Azathioprine  is used in chronic and refractory  disease at a dose of 50–200 mg/day; for  side-effects , see Table 6.3.  Cyclophosphamide  is given in chronic and refractory cases at a dose of  50–150 mg/ day orally;  side-effects  include gastrointestinal distur- bances, haemorrhagic cystitis and haematological toxicity. Mortality is usually  <  5% in the UK but can be up to 10% in black  Americans.  inflammation and fibrosis in the lung parenchyma. There are a number of  subtypes, of which the commonest is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).  nosis, which eventually leads to respiratory failure, pulmonary hyperten- sion and cor pulmonale.  Investigations (p. 516)  • CXR  initially shows a ground glass appearance, followed by irregular  reticulo-nodular shadowing maximal in the lower zones and finally  a honeycomb lung (thick walled cysts 0.5–2 cm in diameter).  • HRCT  shows bilateral predominantly lower lobe changes with basal  and subpleural reticular abnormalities associated with honeycomb- ing and traction bronchiectasis. There is minimal ground glass  attenuation.  • Brain natriuretic peptide  levels are raised in patients with pulmo-  nary hypertension.  • Respiratory function tests  show a restrictive pattern (p. 517). • Invasive diagnostic procedures  — see p. 517.   Treatment.  Treatment is with  prednisolone ,  azathioprine  and  N-acetylcysteine  unless there are contraindications. Domiciliary oxygen  is given for disabling disease. If there is no response, other therapies  such as  cyclophosphamide  may be tried.  Prognosis.  The median survival is about 5 years.  tis) is due to inhalation of organic dusts, e.g. microbial spores found in  contaminated vegetable matter like straw or hay (farmer’s lung), or in the  feathers or excreta of birds, e.g. pigeons (bird fancier’s lung). Fever,  malaise, cough and shortness of breath occur after exposure.  Diagnosis.  Lung function tests show a restrictive pattern and precipitat-  ing antibodies to the antigen are found in the serum.   Treatment.  Treatment is by removal of the antigen, if possible, dust  masks or, in acute cases,  prednisolone .  include direct toxicity (e.g.  bleomycin ), immune complex formation with  arteritis, hypersensitivity and autoimmunity. TB reactivation is seen with  immunosuppressive drugs, e.g. monoclonal antibodies. Table 13.6 gives  some drugs and their respiratory reactions. For further interactions see  www.pneumotox.com. Irradiation  damage following radiotherapy can cause a radiation pneu-  monitis. Patients present with breathlessness and a dry cough. They have  a restrictive lung defect and corticosteroids can be used in the acute stage.  of  >  25 mmHg at rest. It may present spontaneously with no apparent  underlying disease (idiopathic pulmonary hypertension) or it can occur in  association with other diseases, e.g. COPD, pulmonary thromboembolism  or left-sided heart disease (mitral stenosis).  monary artery hypertension (PAH), followed by right ventricular failure.  Groups II–V are classified as having pulmonary hypertension (PH).  Group I: PAH.  This consists of idiopathic, familial and pulmonary artery  hypertension due to disease of the small muscular arterioles. The latter  include autoimmune rheumatic diseases, congenital systemic to pulmo- nary shunts (e.g. congenital heart disease), portal hypertension, HIV  infection and drug toxicity (e.g. dexfenfluramine). This group also  includes diseases associated with significant venous or capillary  involvement, e.g. pulmonary veno-occlusive disease.   Group II: PH owing to left-sided heart disease.  This describes increased  pulmonary venous pressure due to left ventricular dysfunction or mitral  valve disease.   Group III: PH owing to lung diseases and/or hypoxia.  This includes  COPD, interstitial lung disease of sleep-disordered breathing, alveolar  hypoventilation disorders, chronic exposure to high altitude and devel- opmental abnormalities.  Group IV: Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). This includes thrombosis of the proximal or distal pulmonary vascula- ture and also non-thrombotic pulmonary embolism (tumour, parasites,  foreign material).  Table 13.6   Some drug-induced respiratory reactions  Disease Drugs  Bronchospasm Penicillins, cephalosporins  Sulphonamides  Aspirin/NSAIDs  Monoclonal antibodies, e.g. infliximab  Iodine-containing contrast media  β -Adrenoceptor-blocking drugs (e.g.  propranolol)  Non-depolarizing muscle relaxants  IV thiamine  Adenosine  Amiodarone  Anakinra (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist)  Diffuse parenchymal  lung disease and/or  fibrosis  Nitrofurantoin  Paraquat  Continuous oxygen  Cytotoxic agents (many, particularly  busulfan, CCNU, bleomycin, methotrexate)  Pulmonary eosinophilia Antibiotics (penicillin, tetracycline)  Sulphonamides, e.g. sulfasalazine  NSAIDs  Cytotoxic agents  Acute lung injury Paraquat  Pulmonary hypertension Fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, phentermine  Hydralazine  Procainamide  Isoniazid  SLE-like syndrome  including pulmonary  infiltrates, effusions and  fibrosis  Phenytoin  ACE inhibitors  Monoclonal antibodies  Reactivation of TB Immunosuppressant drugs, e.g. steroids  Biological agents, e.g. tumour necrosis  factor blockers  Group V: PH with unclear multi-factorial mechanisms.  This includes  sarcoidosis, Langerhans’ cell histiocytosis, lymphangioleiomyomatosis  and compression of pulmonary vessels (adenopathy, tumour or fibros- ing mediastinitis).  pulmonary vessels caused by remodelling, vasoconstriction, hypoxia and  acidosis with thrombosis. This eventually leads to PH and an increase in  right ventricular afterload, with right ventricular hypertrophy and heart  failure.  classification to the New York scheme for heart failure (p. 417) is used for  assessment.  CXR, ECG and transthoracic echocardiography  are used to assess  severity of PH; appropriate investigations to exclude causal problems  is essential.   HRCT  is used to assess lung fields and size of the pulmonary artery.  Cardiac MR  with contrast provides high-quality images of the pulmo-  nary circulation.  diuretics  for fluid  overload and anticoagulation with  warfarin  for pulmonary thromboem- bolism.  O2 therapy  is necessary for patients with hypoxia at rest or after  exercise. Vasodilatation therapy is being used in PAH;  bosentan ,  sildenafil  and  inhaled iloprost  have all shown some benefit. Atrial septostomy and lung  transplantation is used for patients unresponsive to therapy. N.B.  There is no evidence for the use of angiotensin receptor blockers,  ACE inhibitors or  α -blockers.  or rarely from the right heart can dislodge and embolize into the pulmo- nary arterial system. Thrombi can form due to sluggish blood flow, local  injury, compression of the vein or a hypercoaguable state. Tumour or fat  can also embolize. Embolism results in the lung tissue being unperfused but ventilated,  producing an intrapulmonary dead space and resulting in impaired gas  exchange.  Small to medium PEs  cause a sudden onset of breathlessness, with  pleuritic chest pain and haemoptysis.   Multiple recurrent PEs  can lead to breathlessness over weeks or  months. They can cause fatigue, syncope on exertion and occasionally  angina. The signs are those of PH.   Massive PE  is rare but a medical emergency. The patient may suddenly   collapse with severe central chest pain, shock (pale and sweaty), tachy- pnoea and tachycardia. There may be cyanosis and syncope, and death  can occur rapidly. On examination the patient is hypotensive, with signs  of right ventricular overload (a right ventricular heave and a loud pul- monary second sound). The revised Geneva score (Table 13.7) gives the clinical probability of   a PE.  522  Table 13.7   Revised Geneva score for the clinical prediction of a  pulmonary embolism  Criterion Score  Risk factors  Age  >  65 years + 1  Previous deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism + 3  Surgery or fracture within 1 month + 2  Active malignancy + 2  Symptoms  Unilateral leg pain + 3  Haemoptysis + 2  Clinical signs  Heart rate (bpm)    75–94 + 3   ≥  95 + 5  Pain on leg deep vein palpation and unilateral oedema + 4  Clinical probability  Low 0–3  Intermediate 4–10  High ≥  11  Small/medium or recurrent emboli  • CXR.  This is often normal. Linear atelectasis, blunting of a costo-  phrenic angle (due to a small effusion) and a raised hemidiaphragm  may be seen after some time. Rarely, a wedge-shaped pulmonary  infarct is seen. Previous infarcts are seen as opaque linear scars, and  enlarged pulmonary arterioles with oligaemic lung fields indicate  advanced disease.  • ECG.  This is usually normal, except for sinus tachycardia. Sometimes  atrial fibrillation or another tachyarrhythmia occurs.  • Blood tests.  There is a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, a raised ESR  and increased serum lactate dehydrogenase levels.  • Plasma D-dimer.  This is positive. If undetectable, it excludes a diag-  nosis of PE.  • CT.  Contrast-enhanced, multi-detector CT angiograms (CTAs) have  a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 96%, with a positive predictive  value of 92% (higher with 64-multislice scanners). This is the inves- tigation of choice.  • Radionuclide ventilation/perfusion scanning ( � � V Q / scan).  This is a  good initial test after measurement of D-dimers. It demonstrates  ventilation/perfusion defects, i.e. areas of ventilated lung with per- fusion defects. Pulmonary 99mtechnetium scintigraphy demonstrates   523  the under-perfused areas, while a scintigram, performed after inhala- tion of radioactive xenon, shows no ventilatory defect. A matched  defect may, however, arise with a PE that causes an infarct, or with  emphysematous bullae. This test is therefore conventionally reported  as a probability (low, medium or high) of PE and should be inter- preted in the context of the history, examination and other  investigations.  • US.  This is used for detection of clots in pelvic or ilio-femoral veins. • MRI.  This gives similar results and is used if CTA is  contraindicated.   Massive pulmonary emboli  • CXR  may show pulmonary oligaemia, sometimes with dilatation of  the pulmonary artery in the hila. Often there are no changes.  • ECG  shows right atrial dilatation with tall peaked P waves in lead  II. Right ventricular strain and dilatation give rise to right axis devia- tion, a degree of right bundle branch block, and T wave inversion in  the right precordial leads. The ‘classic’ ECG pattern with an S wave  in lead I, and a Q wave and inverted T waves in lead III (S1, Q3, T3),  is rare.  • ABGs  show arterial hypoxaemia with a low arterial CO2 level, i.e.  type I respiratory failure pattern.  • Echocardiography  shows a vigorously contracting left ventricle, and  occasionally a dilated right ventricle and a clot in the right ventricular  outflow tract.  • Pulmonary angiography  has now been replaced by CT and MR  angiography.   Give high-flow oxygen (60–100%), unless there is significant chronic   lung disease. Bed rest and analgesia are prescribed for patients with  pulmonary infarcts.    Severe cases require:  •  Resuscitation with IV fluids with or without inotropic agents to   improve the pumping of the right heart. Very ill patients will require  care on the ICU.  •  Fibrinolytic therapy is indicated with persistent hypotension.   Alteplase 10 mg IV over 1–2 mins, followed by IV infusion of 90 mg  over 2 hours; or streptokinase 250 000 units by IV infusion over  30 mins, followed by streptokinase 100 000 U IV hourly for up to  12–72 hours according to manufacturer’s instructions. This can clear  pulmonary emboli more rapidly and confer a survival benefit.  •  Rarely, surgical embolectomy, when there is no alternative for very   severe haemodynamic problems.   Start low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).   Give oral anticoagulants immediately and taper off heparin as the oral   anticoagulant becomes effective (INR 2-3). Oral anticoagulants are con- tinued for 6 weeks to 6 months, depending on the likelihood of recur- rence of venous thrombosis or embolism. Recurrent embolism requires  lifelong treatment. As an alternative to warfarin, oral thrombotic drugs  are available (p. 71). They do not need preliminary heparin treatment.    Vena cava filters (temporary or permanent) can be inserted percutane-  the legs to the lungs. They are used for recurrent emboli with the patient  already on warfarin. Warfarin can subsequently be stopped.  An effusion is an excessive accumulation of fluid within the pleural   space.  disease. They are usually divided into transudates and exudates.  Transudates  occur due to increased hydrostatic or decreased oncotic  pressures. Common causes include heart failure, cirrhosis and  hypoproteinaemia.   Exudates  occur due to an increase in capillary permeability when the  pleural surface or lung is damaged. Common causes include pulmonary  emboli, malignancy, a post-pneumonia effusion and TB.   Small effusions are often asymptomatic.   Patients with larger effusions usually present with shortness of breath,   with or without pleuritic chest pain, or with symptoms associated with  the underlying disease.   Clinical examination  shows reduced expansion, a stony dull percus-  sion note, reduced or absent breath sounds, and reduced or absent vocal  fremitus on the affected side. In massive pleural effusions the trachea  can be deviated.  CXROver 300 mL of pleural fluid can be detected on a CXR (Fig. 13.6). Small  effusions can be seen as obliteration of the costophrenic angle, whilst large   525  effusions produce a dense homogeneous shadow occupying part of the  hemithorax.  Removal of large amounts of fluid should be done under ultrasound guid- ance which reduces the risk of pneumothorax and other complications. It  is not necessary if the likely diagnosis is a transudate, e.g. left ventricular  failure.  Diagnostic aspiration  is usually performed with a green needle and a   50 mL syringe under aseptic conditions. The best position for aspiration  is posteriorly, about 10 cm lateral to the spine. Local anaesthetic lido- caine 1% should be infiltrated prior to aspiration.   Fluid  should be sent for microbiological, biochemical and cytological  analysis.   Appearance and odour  •  Clear straw-coloured fluid that does not clot on standing indicates a   transudate.  •  An exudate may look the same but is usually more turbid due to the   presence of cells.  •  Blood-tinged fluid is non-diagnostic but a uniformly bloody effusion   is likely to be secondary to a malignancy, PE with infarction or  trauma. If the haematocrit in the pleural fluid is more than half that  of the patient’s peripheral blood haematocrit, the diagnosis is a  haemothorax.  •  Purulent, viscous, unpleasant-smelling yellow fluid suggests pus and   an empyema.   Protein content.  Under 30 g/L of protein is a transudate;  >  30 g/L   indicates an exudate. However, if the patient has an abnormal serum  protein concentration or the pleural protein is between 25 and 35 g/L,  Light’s criteria should be used to differentiate between the two.   Light’s criteria and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH).  The pleural fluid is  an exudate if: •  fluid to serum ratio of total protein is  >  0.5 •  fluid to serum ratio of LDH is  >  0.6  and/or •  the pleural fluid LDH is more than two-thirds of the upper limit of   normal serum LDH.   Cell type.  The white cell count can be helpful but is often not  diagnostic. • Neutrophilia  suggests infection, e.g. post pneumonia. • Lymphocytosis  indicates TB or malignancy, e.g. lymphoma. • Eosinophilia  is not diagnostic. • Red cells  suggest trauma, malignancy or pulmonary emboli. • Malignant cells  may be present.   Glucose and pH.  Glucose of  <  3.3 mmol/L suggests malignancy, TB or   rheumatoid arthritis. A low pH  <  7.2 is usually due to infection (requir- ing drainage) or malignancy.   Amylase pleural fluid/serum ratio.  A ratio  >  1 suggests acute pancrea-  nancy (especially adenocarcinoma).   CT chest.  CT chest with contrast may be useful in cases of difficult  drainage to delineate the size and location of loculations.   Percutaneous pleural biopsy.  This is performed for patients with an  undiagnosed exudative pleural effusion when there is a clinical suspi- cion of malignancy or TB. It can be done blind with an Abram’s needle  or under CT guidance. Samples should always be sent for TB testing, in  sterile saline and not formalin. All biopsy and aspiration sites should  be marked with Indian ink; if the final diagnosis is mesothelioma,  patients will require radiotherapy to the biopsy site within 1 month to  prevent seeding in the biopsy track.   Bronchoscopy.  This should only be performed if there is haemoptysis  or any evidence to suggest bronchial obstruction.   Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS).  VATS allows direct visualiza-  tion of the pleura and should be performed if all other, less invasive  tests fail to provide a diagnosis. It is very effective for the diagnosis of  malignant effusions.  Transudates  usually resolve with treatment of the underlying condi-  tion. Occasionally, pleurodesis and shunts are required to control  symptoms.   Symptomatic pleural effusions  may require drainage of a large amount  of pleural fluid. Re-expansion pulmonary oedema is a rare complication  that can occur when more than 1 L is drained. For frequent recurrent  re-accumulations of fluid an intercostal drain is used and, provided  there is a confirmed diagnosis, pleurodesis may be necessary.   Indications for chest tube drainage  include frankly purulent or turbid  fluid on pleural aspiration, positive pleural fluid Gram stain or culture,  a pleural fluid pH  <  7.2, loculated pleural collections and large non- purulent effusions that are causing symptoms. If there is a poor response  to antibiotics alone, chest tube drainage may be required. If the chest  tube becomes  blocked  it can be flushed with 20–50 mL of 0.9% saline to  ensure patency. If drainage still remains poor, repeat imaging should be  used to confirm the position and look for the presence of loculations.  rial spread from a severe pneumonia or rupture of a lung abscess into the  pleural space. There is usually infection with an anaerobic organism (in  70%), and the patient is very ill and has a high temperature.  culture is performed to rule out septicaemia. FBC, U&E and liver biochem- istry are performed routinely.  Antibiotics (BTS guidelines).  Antibiotics should be given according to  culture results and sensitivities for up to 6 weeks. They should cover  both aerobic and anaerobic organisms, e.g. IV  cefuroxime  1 g 6–8- hourly and IV  metronidazole  500 mg 8-hourly for 5 days. This should  be followed with  oral cefaclor  and  metronidazole . If no culture results  are available, a broad-spectrum antibiotic with metronidazole is given  intravenously.   Intercostal drainage.  Intercostal drainage under US or CT guidance is  required to drain the empyema.   Surgery.  Patients with persistent sepsis and a persistent pleural collec-  tion despite antibiotics and chest tube drainage for 7 days should be  referred to a thoracic surgeon.  Intercostal  drainage  and  pleurodesis  prevents pleural fluid  re-accumulation. A chest drain is inserted and the pleural effusion  drained to dryness in a controlled manner so as to prevent re-expansion  pulmonary oedema. A CXR should be performed to confirm drainage  of pleural fluid, re-expansion of the lung and the position of the inter- costal drain. A chemical is then instilled into the pleural space, leading  to inflammation and formation of adhesions between the two layers of  the pleura.  Lidocaine  3 mg/kg is instilled into the pleural space, fol- lowed by the sclerosing agent. The chest drain should then be clamped  for 1 hour and the patient rotated if talc slurry has been used. The chest  drain can be unclamped and, provided the lung remains fully  re-expanded and there is satisfactory drainage of pleural fluid, should  be removed within 12–72 hours. Success rates are usually  >  60%. Side- effects include pleuritic pain and fever. There are a number of sclerosing  agents available, e.g.  tetracycline ,  bleomycin  and  doxycycline . Talc is  usually the preferred agent, as it is inexpensive, widely available and  effective. However,  <  1% of patients may develop respiratory failure  post instillation. The recommended dose is 2–5 g.   Thoracoscopy  can be used to deliver talc poudrage, which has a mean  pleurodesis success rate of  >  90%.   Pleural abrasion or partial pleurectomy  can also be performed via  thoracoscopy in patients who have a good prognosis.   Other measures  include chronic indwelling pleural catheters, pleuro- peritoneal shunts, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.  Pneumothorax means air in the pleural space. A  primary  spontaneous  pneumothorax occurs in patients with no underlying lung disease. They  are usually found in young, tall, thin men and are caused by the rupture  of a pleural bleb, which is usually apical. A  secondary  spontaneous pneu- mothorax occurs in individuals with underlying lung disease, such as  COPD. Traumatic pneumothorax is the result of blunt or penetrating chest  wounds.  with progressively increasing shortness of breath and occasionally a  cough. The history may reveal an underlying disease process or history of  trauma. Patients with a small pneumothorax have no signs on clinical examina-  absent breath sounds, reduced vocal fremitus, and normal or hyper- resonant percussion note on the affected side. If the pneumothorax is  under tension the patient will be distressed, tachypnoeic, cyanosed and  hypotensive, and the trachea is deviated away from the affected side.  Box 13.4   Simple aspiration of a pneumothorax  1. Explain the nature of the procedure and obtain consent 2. Infiltrate 2% lidocaine down to the pleura in the second   intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line  3. Push a 3–4 cm 16 French gauge cannula through the pleura 4. Connect the cannula to a three-way tap and 50 mL syringe 5. Aspirate up to 2.5 L of air. Stop if resistance to suction is felt or   the patient coughs excessively  6. Repeat CXR (in expiration) in the X-ray department  Imaging.  A CXR usually makes the diagnosis by showing a pleural line.  In a tension pneumothorax there may be deviation of the trachea and  mediastinal shift away from the affected side. If a pneumothorax is  clinically suspected but the PA film looks normal, a lateral radiograph  may help detection. CT scans are useful in patients with severe bullous  lung disease, as they help to differentiate an emphysematous bulla from  a pneumothorax.   ABGs.  These may show hypoxia, particularly in patients with underly-  ing chest disease. Hypercapnia may be present in COPD. Acute respira- tory alkalosis may occur if there is pain, anxiety or severe hypoxia.  Medicine p. 715)  If the patient has no symptoms and the CXR shows a rim of air  <  2 cm   between the lung margin and the chest wall, no treatment is necessary.  These patients can be discharged and reviewed in outpatients in 2–4  weeks. They should be advised not to travel by air or go diving.    If a patient is breathless and/or has a rim of air of  >  2 cm between the   lung margin and the chest wall, high-flow oxygen should be given and  aspiration of air should be attempted (Box 13.4).    Repeated aspiration is performed if the first attempt was unsuccessful   and  <  2.5 L of air was aspirated.    If the above measures fail and the lung does not re-expand and/or the   patient remains breathless, an intercostal drain should be inserted and  connected to an underwater seal or a Heimlich flutter valve (one-way  valve). If, after 24 hours, the lung has fully expanded and there is no  ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed.    A bubbling chest drain should never be clamped. Some experienced   chest physicians support the clamping of non-bubbling chest drains  prior to removal to detect small air leaks. This should only be done  under the supervision of a respiratory physician, on a specialist ward  with experienced nurses. If the patient’s symptoms get worse or  subcutaneous emphysema develops, the drain should be unclamped  immediately.    Suction can be applied to the intercostal drain if, 48 hours after insertion,   This should be performed on a specialist ward using a high-volume,  low-pressure ( − 10 to  − 20 cmH2O) system.   Surgical referral  is indicated if the lung fails to re-expand or there is an  ongoing air leak after 5–7 days. Surgical referrals should also be made  for patients with a second ipsilateral pneumothorax, a first contralateral  pneumothorax, bilateral spontaneous pneumothorax or spontaneous  haemothorax, and for those in a profession at risk, such as pilots and  divers. Surgical treatment includes inspection of the lung and pleura  under VATS for blebs, bullous areas or breaches in the parietal pleura;  these are dealt with by staple resection, electrocautery or ligation. At  the same time, a procedure that creates pleurodesis can be performed.  The options to prevent recurrence include pleurectomy, pleural abra- sion with a scourer, or talc pleurodesis.   Observation alone is recommended only for asymptomatic patients   with a small pneumothorax of  <  1 cm or a small apical pneumothorax.  These patients should be observed in hospital. All other cases require  intervention.    Simple aspiration is recommended only in patients under the age of   50 who have minimal shortness of breath and a small pneumothorax   of  <  2 cm. Treatment of the underlying lung disease may also be  required.    Intercostal drain insertion is recommended for most patients with sec-  ondary pneumothorax, except for those described above. As for primary  pneumothorax, if, after 24 hours, the lung is fully re-expanded and there  is no ongoing air leak, the drain can be removed. Suction is as for  primary pneumothorax.    A surgical referral should be made if the lung fails to re-expand or   there is an air leak after 3 days. Surgical options are as for primary  pneumothorax.  inspiration and cannot be expelled on expiration. This leads to increasing  accumulation of air within the pleural space, positive intrapleural pressure  throughout breathing, deflation of the lung, mediastinal shift, decreased  venous return to the heart, and ultimately respiratory and cardiac embar- rassment that can lead to a cardiac arrest. It is more common in patients  on positive pressure ventilation and should be considered in those with  respiratory/cardiovascular compromise post chest trauma or post any  procedure in which the thorax is pierced with a needle. Treatment is with  immediate decompression by placing a 14-gauge cannula into the second  intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line. The diagnosis is confirmed if  there is release of air with immediate improvement in symptoms. A chest  drain should then be inserted on the affected side. For all pneumothoraces, air travel should be avoided until full  resolution.  Calvaley PMA, Walter P: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,  Lancet 362:1053–1081, 2008. Jaff MR: Management of massive and sub-massive pulmonary embolism.  A scientific statement from the American Heart Association,  Circulation 123:1–43, 2011.  530