context : 
 Context : 
 INSTRUCTION Look at this patient. SALIENT FEATURES History · Daytime somnolence. · Unrefreshing sleep. · Daytime fatigue. · Snoring. · Shortness of breath. · Headache, particularly in the morning. · Swelling of feet. · Poor concentration. · Systemic hypertension. · Family history of obesity. · Gastro-oesophageal reflux. · Poor quality of life. Examination · Obese patient who is plethoric and cyanosed. · Maxillary or mandibular hypoplasia. · Shortness of breath at rest. · May be nodding off to sleep. · Systemic hypertension. · Nocturnal angina. · Look for signs of pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure. Remember. Nearly 50% of patients with sleep apnoea syndrome are not obese. DIAGNOSIS This patient has marked obesity and hypersomnolence with signs of pulmonary hypertension (lesion) which indicate that she has pickwickian syndrome. The patient is in cardiac failure (functional status).  
Question : 
How would you treat such a patient?
 
Answer : 
 
predicted output :
 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
gold output :
 · Weight reduction.· Avoidance of smoking and alcohol.· Progesterone (enhances respiratory drive).·       Continuous nasal positive airway pressure delivered by a nasal mask (lancet 1999; 353: 2100-5).·       Home oxygen.·       Surgery: tracheostomy, uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, linguoplasty, mandibular advancement, plastic remodelling of the uvula(laser-assisted or radiofrequency ablation).·       Drugs: serotonin receptor blockade, acetazolamide, methylxanthines, weight loss medications.Mr. Pickwick is a character in the novel Pickwick Papers, written by Charles Dickens; the term was applied by Sir William Osier.
 
