SECTION VI 
Disorders of the Respiratory System and Critical Care Illness 
VI-1.  All of the following are typically characterized as an obstructive lung disease EXCEPT: 
A.   Asbestosis B.   Asthma C.   Bronchiectasis D.   Chronic bronchitis E.   Emphysema 
VI-2.  A 25-year-old man is brought to the emergency department by ambulance after his family found 
him unresponsive at home. He has a history of intravenous drug abuse and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) with medical noncompliance. His last CD4 count was <200/ μ L. On initial evaluation, his blood pressure is 120/75 mmHg, heart rate is 105 bpm, respiratory rate 8 breaths/min, oxygen saturation (SaO2) of 83%, and temperature of 36.0°C. A blood gas on room air reveals pH of 7.16, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2) of 70 mmHg, and partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) of 55 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? 
A.   Asthma B.   Narcotic overdose C.   Pneumococcal pneumonia D.   Pneumocystis pneumonia E.   Pulmonary embolism 
VI-3.  At what lung volume does the outward recoil of the chest wall equal the inward elastic recoil of 
the lung? 
A.   Expiratory reserve volume B.   Functional residual capacity C.   Residual volume D.   Tidal volume E.   Total lung capacity 
VI-4.  A 65-year-old man is evaluated for progressive dyspnea on exertion that has occurred over the 
course of the past 3 months. His medical history is significant for an episode of necrotizing pancreatitis that resulted in multiorgan failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. He required mechanical ventilation for 6 weeks prior to his recovery. He also has a history of 30 pack-years of tobacco, quitting 15 years previously. He is not known to have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. On physical examination, a low-pitched inspiratory and expiratory wheeze is heard, loudest 
over the mid-chest area. On pulmonary function testing, the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) is 2.5 L (78% predicted), forced vital capacity (FVC) is 4.00 L (94% predicted), and FEV1/FVC ratio is 62.5%. The flow-volume curve is shown in  Figure VI-4A . What is the most likely cause of the patient’s symptoms? 
FIGURE VI-4A  RV, residual volume; TLC, total lung capacity. 
A.   Aspirated foreign body B.   Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease C.   Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis D.   Subglottic stenosis E.   Unilateral vocal cord paralysis 
VI-5.  A 22-year-old woman presents to the emergency department in her 23rd week of pregnancy 
complaining of acute dyspnea. She has had an uncomplicated pregnancy and has no other medical problems. She is taking no medications other than prenatal vitamins. On examination, she appears dyspneic. Her vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 128/78 mmHg, heart rate 126 bpm, respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation 96% on room air. She is afebrile. Her lung and cardiac examinations are normal. There is trace bilateral pitting pedal edema. A chest x-ray performed with abdominal shielding is normal, and the electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrates sinus tachycardia. An arterial blood gas is performed. The pH is 7.52, partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide (PaCO2) is 26 mmHg, and partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) is 85 mmHg. What is the next best step in the diagnosis and management of this patient? 
A.   Initiate therapy with amoxicillin for acute bronchitis. B.   Perform a computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiogram . C.   Perform an echocardiogram. D.   Reassure the patient that dyspnea is normal during this stage of pregnancy and no abnormalities 
are seen on testing. 
E.   Treat with clonazepam for a panic attack. 
VI-6 to VI-9.  Match each of the following pulmonary function test results to the respiratory disorder in 
which it is most likely to be found. 
VI-6.  Myasthenia gravis 
VI-7.  Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 
VI-8.  Familial pulmonary hypertension 
VI-9.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
A.   Increased total lung capacity (TLC), decreased vital capacity (VC), decreased FEV1/FVC ratio B.   Decreased TLC, decreased VC, decreased residual volume (RV), increased FEV1/FVC ratio, normal 
maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) 
C.   Decreased TLC, increased RV, normal FEV1/FVC ratio, decreased MIP D.   Normal TLC, normal RV, normal FEV1/FVC ratio, normal MIP 
VI-10.  A 78-year-old woman is admitted to the medical intensive care unit (ICU) with multilobar 
pneumonia. On initial presentation to the emergency department, her initial oxygen saturation was 60% on room air and only increased to 82% on a non-rebreather face mask. She was in marked respiratory distress and intubated in the emergency department. Upon admission to the ICU, she was sedated and paralyzed. The ventilator is set in the assist-control mode with a respiratory rate of 24 breaths/min, tidal volume of 6 mL/kg, FiO2 of 1.0, and positive end-expiratory pressure of 12 cmH2O. An arterial blood gas measurement is performed on these settings; the results are pH of 7.20, PCO2 of 32 mmHg, and PO2 of 54 mmHg. What is the cause of the hypoxemia? 
A.   Hypoventilation alone B.   Hypoventilation and ventilation-perfusion mismatch C.   Shunt D.   Ventilation-perfusion mismatch 
VI-11.  Mrs. Wittstine, a 72-year-old woman, has been complaining of low-grade fever and dyspnea for 2 
weeks. She has a 10-year history of scleroderma with involvement of the digits and esophagus. She has a 30-pack-year history of cigarette smoking but quit 8 years ago. On chest radiograph, she has a nodular infiltrate in the right lower lobe. Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT shows the right lower lobe lesion to be 3 cm in diameter with nodular infiltrate characteristics and enhanced fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake. Which of the following statements about Mrs. Wittstine is most accurate? 
A.   Additional diagnostic studies are indicated. B.   The findings on PET/CT make infection very likely. C.   The findings on PET/CT make infection very unlikely. D.   The findings on PET/CT make malignancy very likely. E.   The findings on PET/CT make malignancy very unlikely. 
VI-12.  A 65-year-old man is evaluated for progressive dyspnea on exertion and dry cough that have 
worsened over the course of 6 months. He has not had dyspnea at rest and denies wheezing. He has not experienced chest pain. He has a history of coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation and previously underwent a coronary artery bypass surgery 12 years previously. His medications include metoprolol, aspirin, warfarin, and enalapril. He previously smoked 1 pack of cigarettes daily for 40 years, quitting 5 years previously. His vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 122/68 mmHg, heart rate 68 bpm, respiratory rate 18 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation 92% on room air. His chest examination demonstrates bibasilar crackles present about one-third of the way up bilaterally. No wheezing is heard. He has an irregularly irregular rhythm with a II/VI holosystolic murmur at the 
apex. The jugular venous pressure is not elevated. No edema is present, but clubbing is noted. Pulmonary function testing reveals an FEV1 of 65% predicted, FVC of 67% predicted, FEV1/FVC ratio of 74%, TLC of 68% predicted, and diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) of 62% predicted. Which test is most likely to determine the etiology of the patient’s dyspnea? 
A.   Bronchoscopy with transbronchial lung biopsy B.   CT pulmonary angiography C.   Echocardiography D.   High-resolution CT scan of the chest E.   Nuclear medicine stress test 
VI-13.  Which of the following is the major risk factor for asthma? 
A.   Air pollution B.   Atopy C.   Diet D.   Maternal cigarette smoking E.   Upper respiratory viral infections 
VI-14.  A 24-year-old woman is seen for a complaint of shortness of breath and wheezing. She notes the 
symptoms to be worse when she has exercised outdoors and is around cats. She has had allergic rhinitis in the spring and summer for many years and suffered from eczema as a child. On physical examination, she is noted to have expiratory wheezing. Her pulmonary function tests demonstrate an FEV1 of 2.67 (79% predicted), FVC of 3.81 L (97% predicted), and an FEV1/FVC ratio of 70% (86% predicted). After administration of albuterol, the FEV1 increases to 3.0 L (12.4%). Which of the following statements regarding the patient’s disease process is true? 
A.   Confirmation of the diagnosis will require methacholine challenge testing. B.   Mortality due to the disease has been increasing over the past decade. C.   The most common risk factor in individuals with the disorder is genetic predisposition. D.   The prevalence of the disorder has not changed in the past several decades. E.   The severity of the disease does not vary significantly within a given patient with the disease. 
VI-15.  A 38-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department for status asthmaticus. She rapidly 
deteriorates and dies of her disease. All of the following pathologic findings would likely be seen in this individual EXCEPT: 
A.   Infiltration of the airway mucosa with eosinophils and activated T lymphocytes B.   Infiltration of the alveolar spaces with eosinophils and neutrophils C.   Occlusion of the airway lumen by mucous plugs D.   Thickening and edema of the airway wall E.   Thickening of the basement membrane of the airways with subepithelial collagen deposition 
VI-16.  Which of the following patients is appropriately diagnosed with asthma? 
A.   A 24-year-old woman treated with inhaled corticosteroids for cough and wheezing that has 
persisted for 6 weeks following a viral upper respiratory infection 
B.   A 26-year-old man who coughs and occasionally wheezes following exercise in cold weather C.   A 34-year-old woman evaluated for chronic cough with an FEV1/FVC ratio of 68% with an FEV1 
in FEV1) 
D.   A 44-year-old man who works as a technician caring for the mice in a medical research 
laboratory and complains of wheezing, shortness of breath, and cough that are most severe at the end of the week 
E.   A 60-year-old man who has smoked two packs of cigarettes per day for 40 years who has dyspnea 
and cough and who has airway hyperreactivity in response to methacholine 
VI-17.  A 24-year-old woman was diagnosed with asthma 4 months ago and was treated with inhaled 
albuterol as needed. Since her last visit, she feels generally well and typically requires using her inhaler approximately four to seven times a week when around pollen or cats or when exercising in cold air. The inhaled albuterol generally helps, and she only requires a repeat round of inhalations approximately two times a week. She is on no other medications and is a nonsmoker, and her only pet is a goldfish named Puffer. Based on this information, you advise which of the following? 
A.   Add inhaled beclomethasone B.   Add inhaled salmeterol twice a day C.   Add inhaled tiotropium D.   Continue present therapy E.   Think of a new name for the goldfish 
VI-18.  A 28-year-old woman with longstanding mild persistent asthma comes to see you because she just 
found out that she is pregnant. Her only medications are inhaled beclomethasone twice a day and albuterol as needed. She typically uses her albuterol less than twice per week. She wants to know what to expect regarding her asthma severity and whether any medication changes should be made at this time. Which of the following statements is correct? 
A.   She should continue her current therapy and follow symptoms. B.   She should switch from inhaled albuterol as needed to inhaled tiotropium as needed. C.   She should switch from inhaled beclomethasone to a inhaled salmeterol. D.   There is a greater than 70% chance that her asthma symptoms will become less severe during 
pregnancy. 
E.   There is a greater than 70% chance that her asthma symptoms will become more severe during 
pregnancy. 
VI-19.  A 38-year-old woman is admitted to the medical ICU with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. 
She was well and healthy until 4 days prior when she abruptly began to feel ill with fevers, chills, bilateral pleuritic chest pain, and worsening shortness of breath. She has no significant past medical history but has suffered the recent death of her father following a car accident. In coping with his loss, she began smoking cigarettes again after a 15-year period of abstinence. She has been smoking up to two packs of tobacco daily. After she began to feel ill, she started taking acetaminophen and pseudoephedrine, but otherwise takes no medications. Upon arrival in the emergency department, her oxygen saturation was 78% on room air. On a non-rebreather mask, the oxygen saturation increased to 92%. The vital signs are as follows: temperature 38.7°C (101.7°), heart rate 122 bpm, respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and blood pressure 132/82 mmHg. She appears in moderate respiratory distress. There are bilateral diffuse crackles. The cardiovascular examination shows a regular tachycardia without murmur. The jugular venous pressure is not elevated, and no edema is present. The abdomen is soft and not tender. No hepatosplenomegaly is present. Extremity and neurology examinations are normal. Chest radiograph shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates. Her echocardiogram shows normal left heart systolic and diastolic function. She is treated with ceftriaxone 1 g intravenously (IV) daily and azithromycin 500 mg IV daily. Over the course of the first 24 hours, the patient’s clinical condition continues to deteriorate. She remains febrile, and she requires intubation and mechanical ventilation. The patient’s ventilator is set on assist control with a rate of 28/min, tidal volume of 330 mL, fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.8, and positive end- expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 12 cmH2O. On these settings, her arterial blood gas values are pH 7.28, PaCO2 68 mmHg, and PaO2 62 mmHg. A bronchoalveolar lavage is performed. The cell count shows 58% neutrophils, 12% lymphocytes, and 30% eosinophils. What is the best approach to the treatment of the patient at this time? 
A.   Consult thoracic surgery for surgical lung biopsy. B.   Continue current IV antibiotic regimen while awaiting culture data. C.   Initiate methylprednisolone 60 mg IV every 6 hours. D.   Initiate oseltamivir 75 mg twice a day. E.   Initiate therapy with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole IV with prednisone 40 mg twice a day. 
VI-20.  A 34-year-old man is referred to clinic for evaluation of severe persistent asthma. He was 
diagnosed with asthma in his teenage years. At that time, he primarily noticed symptoms when he was running cross country track outdoors. He generally has been an active individual, but in the past 10 years, his asthma has become increasingly hard to control. He has been hospitalized three times for asthma exacerbations in the past 3 years. He has had to stop running and has gained 60 lb due to being on chronic oral prednisone. His current medical regimen is fluticasone/salmeterol 500/50  μ g twice a day, tiotropium 18  μ g daily, montelukast 10 mg daily, esomeprazole 40 mg daily, fluticasone nasal spray daily, and prednisone 10 mg daily. He uses his rescue albuterol nebulizer or metered-dose inhaler (MDI) about four times daily and awakens at night at least three times weekly. He has a chronic cough that brings up brownish mucous plugs. On examination, he has enlarged nasal turbinates but no polyps. Diffuse bilateral wheezing is heard. No crackles are present. His chest x-ray shows hyperinflation with an area of upper lung zone infiltrate in the right upper lobe. Three months ago, he had an area of atelectasis with mucous plugging in the left lower lobe. His peripheral eosinophil count is 750/ μ L. Which of the following tests is indicated next in the evaluation and treatment of this patient? 
A.   Aspirin desensitization B.   Chest CT C.   Nasal nitric oxide testing D.   Serum immunoglobulin (Ig) E level E.   Sweat chloride testing 
VI-21.  A 34-year-old woman seeks evaluation for a complaint of cough and dyspnea on exertion that has 
gradually worsened over 3 months. The patient has no past history of pulmonary complaints and has never had asthma. She started working in a pet store approximately 6 months ago. Her duties there include cleaning the reptile and bird cages. She reports occasional low-grade fevers but has had no wheezing. The cough is dry and nonproductive. Before 3 months ago, the patient had no limitation of exercise tolerance, but now she reports that she gets dyspneic climbing two flights of stairs. On physical examination, the patient appears well. She has an oxygen saturation of 95% on room air at rest but desaturates to 89% with ambulation. Temperature is 37.7°C (99.8°F). The pulmonary examination is unremarkable. No clubbing or cyanosis is present. The patient has a normal chest radiogram. A high-resolution chest CT shows diffuse ground-glass infiltrates in the lower lobes with the presence of centrilobular nodules. A transbronchial biopsy shows an interstitial alveolar infiltrate of plasma cells, lymphocytes, and occasional eosinophils. There are also several loose noncaseating granulomas. All cultures are negative for bacterial, viral, and fungal pathogens. What is the diagnosis? 
A.   Aspergillosis B.   Hypersensitivity pneumonitis C.   Nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis related to collagen vascular disease D.   Psittacosis E.   Sarcoidosis 
VI-22.  What treatment do you recommend for the patient in Question VI-21? 
A.   Amphotericin B.   Doxycycline C.   Glucocorticoids D.   Glucocorticoids plus azathioprine E.   Glucocorticoids plus removal of antigen 
VI-23.  A 75-year-old man is evaluated for a new left-sided pleural effusion and shortness of breath. He 
worked as an insulation worker at a shipyard for more than 30 years and did not wear protective respiratory equipment, retiring at the age of 60. He has a 50 pack-year history of tobacco with known moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; FEV1 55% predicted) and a history of myocardial infarction 10 years previously. His current medications include aspirin, atenolol, benazepril, tiotropium, and albuterol. His physical examination is consistent with a left-sided effusion 
with dullness to percussion and decreased breath sounds occurring over half of the hemithorax. On chest x-ray, there is a moderate left-sided pleural effusion with bilateral pleural calcifications and left apical pleural thickening. No lung mass is seen. A chest CT confirms the findings on chest x-ray and also fails to show a mass. There is compressive atelectasis of the left lower lobe. A thoracentesis is performed demonstrating an exudative effusion with 65% lymphocytes, 25% mesothelial cells, and 10% neutrophils. Cytology does not demonstrate any malignancy. Which of the following statements regarding the most likely cause of the patient’s effusion or causative condition is true? 
A.   Cigarette smoking increases the likelihood of developing the condition. B.   Death in this disease is usually related to diffuse metastatic disease. C.   Exposure to the causative agent can be as brief as 1–2 years, and latency to expression of disease 
may be as great as 40 years. 
D.   Repeated pleural fluid cytology will most likely lead to a definitive diagnosis. E.   Therapy with a combination of surgical resection with adjuvant chemotherapy significantly 
improves long-term survival. 
VI-24.  Chronic silicosis is related to an increased risk of which of the following conditions? 
A.   Infection with invasive  Aspergillus B.   Infection with  Mycobacterium tuberculosis C.   Lung cancer D.   Rheumatoid arthritis E.   All of the above 
VI-25.  All of the following occupational lung diseases are correctly matched with its exposure EXCEPT: 
A.   Berylliosis—High-technology electronics B.   Byssinosis—Cotton milling C.   Farmer’s lung—Moldy hay D.   Progressive massive fibrosis—Shipyard workers E.   Metal fume fever—Welding 
VI-26.  A 53-year-old man is seen in the emergency department with sudden-onset fever, chills, malaise, 
and shortness of breath but no wheezing. He has no significant past medical history and is a farmer. Of note, he worked earlier in the day stacking hay. Posteroanterior and lateral chest radiography shows diffuse bilateral alveolar infiltrates. Which organism is most likely to be responsible for this presentation? 
A.    Nocardia asteroides B.    Histoplasma capsulatum C.    Cryptococcus neoformans D.    Actinomyces  species E.    Aspergillus fumigatus 
VI-27.  A 36-year-old woman is brought into intensive care after a house fire. She is obtunded but did not 
suffer any major burns. She is being treated for smoke inhalation. Her initial carboxyhemoglobin concentration is 25%. She is treated with 100% oxygen but remains obtunded. She subsequently develops generalized seizures. Her blood pressure rapidly declines to 60/40 mmHg. The heart rate is 150 bpm. The SaO2 reading is 98%. There is a ruddy appearance to the patient’s complexion, and a bitter almond odor is present. There is soot around the patient’s nose and mouth. The pupils are dilated, and the skin is diaphoretic. Which of the following tests will yield the diagnosis? 
A.   Ammonia concentration B.   Blood lactate level C.   Carboxyhemoglobin level D.   Red blood cell cyanide concentration E.   Methemoglobin level 
VI-28.  A 51-year-old woman presents complaining of a daily cough productive of thick green sputum. 
The cough is worse when she first wakes in the morning. At this time, there are occasionally streaks of blood in the sputum. Her cough began about 7 years ago and has been progressively worse with production of increasing volume of sputum. She currently estimates that she brings up about half a cup of sputum daily. She reports frequently requiring antibiotics for both lower respiratory tract infections as well as sinus infections. Bilateral coarse crackles are heard in the lower lung zones. No clubbing is present. Pulmonary function tests demonstrate an FEV1 of 1.68 L (53.3% predicted), FVC of 3.00 L (75% predicted), and FEV1/FVC ratio of 56%. A sputum culture grows  Pseudomonas aeruginosa . What test would you perform next in the evaluation of this patient? 
A.   Barium swallow study B.   Bronchoscopy C.   Chest radiography D.   High-resolution chest CT E.   Sweat chloride testing 
VI-29.  A 62-year-old woman is diagnosed with bronchiectasis following treatment for  Mycobacterium 
avium-intracellulare , which was confirmed on two positive expectorated sputum cultures. She is treated for 24 months with clarithromycin, ethambutol, and rifampin, and her cultures have been negative for mycobacteria for the past 12 months. However, she continues to produce sputum on a daily basis, and her CT shows focal bronchiectasis in the right middle lobe. Which of the following is the best treatment for the patient at the current time? 
A.   Consult thoracic surgery for right middle lobectomy. B.   Continue treatment with clarithromycin, ethambutol, and rifampin. C.   Initiate airway clearance with oscillating positive expiratory pressure flutter valve. D.   Initiate treatment with dornase (DNase). E.   Initiate treatment with prednisone 20 mg daily. 
VI-30.  An infant is diagnosed with cystic fibrosis when a sweat chloride returns positive at 110 mmol/L 
after an abnormal newborn screening test. The drug ivacaftor, recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration, is indicated in patients with which of the following genetic mutations? 
A.   G542X B.   G551D C.   F508del D.   621+1G>T E.   R117C 
VI-31.  Ivacaftor works in patients with cystic fibrosis by having which of the following actions on the 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) protein? 
A.   Corrects protein slicing abnormalities B.   Improves conductance through the chloride ion pore C.   Increases synthesis of CFTR D.   Promotes CFTR binding at the cell membrane E.   Stabilizes CFTR protein to prolong degradation 
VI-32.  A 28-year-old woman is evaluated for recurrent lung and sinus infections. She recalls having at 
least yearly episodes of bronchitis beginning in her early teens. For the past 5 years, she states that she has been on antibiotics at least three times yearly for respiratory or sinus infections. She also reports that she has had difficulty gaining weight and has always felt short compared to her peers. On physical examination, the patient has a body mass index of 18.5 kg/m2. Her oxygen saturation is 95% on room air at rest. Nasal polyps are present. Coarse rhonchi and crackles are heard in the bilateral upper lung zones. A chest radiograph shows bilateral upper lobe bronchiectasis with areas of mucous plugging. You are concerned about the possibility of undiagnosed cystic fibrosis. Which of the following tests would provide the strongest support for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in this 
individual? 
A.   DNA analysis demonstrating one copy of the F508del allele B.   Decreased baseline nasal potential difference C.   Presence of  P aeruginosa  on repeated sputum cultures D.   Sweat chloride values >40 mmol/L E.   Sweat chloride values >60 mmol/L 
VI-33.  A 22-year-old man with cystic fibrosis is seen for a routine follow-up. He is currently treated with 
recombinant human DNase and albuterol by nebulization twice daily. His primary sputum clearance technique is aerobic exercise five times weekly and autogenic drainage. He is overall feeling well, and his examination is normal. Pulmonary function testing demonstrates an FEV1 of 4.48 L (97% predicted), FVC of 5.70 L (103% predicted), and FEV1/FVC ratio of 79%. A routine sputum culture grows  P aeruginosa . The only organism isolated on prior cultures has been  Staphylococcus aureus . What do you recommend for this patient? 
A.   High-frequency chest wall oscillation B.   Hypertonic saline (7%) nebulized twice daily C.   Inhaled tobramycin 300 mg twice daily every other month D.   Intravenous cefepime and tobramycin for 14 days E.   Return visit in 3 months with repeat sputum cultures and treatment only if there is persistent  P 
aeruginosa 
VI-34.  A 69-year-old man with COPD has been admitted to the hospital three times over the past year 
for COPD exacerbations. He has daily cough with sputum production and an FEV1 of 45% predicted. He previously smoked a pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years, quitting 1 year ago. His oxygen saturation on room air is 91%. Which of the following treatments is most likely to decrease the frequency of his exacerbations? 
A.   Azithromycin 250 mg three times weekly B.   Continuous oxygen at 2 L/min C.   Nocturnal bilevel positive airway pressure with an inspiratory pressure of 18 cm H2O and 
expiratory pressure of 12 cm H2O 
D.   Roflumilast 500  μ g daily E.   Theophylline 300 mg daily 
VI-35.  All of the following are risk factors for COPD EXCEPT: 
A.   Airway hyperresponsiveness B.   Coal dust exposure C.   Passive cigarette smoke exposure D.   Recurrent respiratory infections E.   Use of biomass fuels in poorly ventilated areas 
VI-36.  A 65-year-old woman is evaluated for dyspnea on exertion and chronic cough. She has a long 
history of tobacco use, smoking 1.5 packs of cigarettes daily since the age of 20. She is a thin woman in no obvious distress. Her oxygen saturation on room air is 93% with a respiratory rate of 22 breaths/min. The lungs are hyperexpanded on percussion with decreased breath sounds in the upper lung fields. You suspect COPD. What are the expected findings on pulmonary function testing? 
VI-37.  A 70-year-old man with known COPD is seen for follow-up. He has been clinically stable without 
an exacerbation for the past 6 months. However, he generally feels in poor health and is limited in what he can do. He reports dyspnea with usual activities. He is currently being managed with albuterol MDI twice daily and as needed. He has a 50-pack-year history of smoking and quit 5 years previously. His other medical problems include peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and benign prostatic hyperplasia. He is managed with aspirin, lisinopril, hydrochlorothiazide, and tamsulosin. On examination, the patient has a resting oxygen saturation of 93% on room air. He is hyperinflated to percussion with decreased breath sounds at the apices and faint expiratory wheezing. His pulmonary function tests demonstrate an FEV1 of 55% predicted, FVC of 80% predicted, and FEV1/FVC ratio of 50%. What is the next best step in the management of this patient? 
A.   Initiate a trial of oral glucocorticoids for a period of 4 weeks and initiate inhaled fluticasone if 
there is a significant improvement in pulmonary function. 
B.   Initiate treatment with inhaled fluticasone 110  μ g/puff twice daily. C.   Initiate treatment with inhaled fluticasone 250  μ g/puff in combination with inhaled salmeterol 
50 mg/puff twice daily. 
D.   Initiate treatment with inhaled tiotropium 18  μ g/daily. E.   Perform exercise and nocturnal oximetry and initiate oxygen therapy if these demonstrate 
significant hypoxemia. 
VI-38.  A 56-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with a 4-day history of increasing shortness of 
breath and cough with copious sputum production. She has known severe COPD with an FEV1 of 42% predicted. On presentation, she has a room air blood gas with a pH of 7.26, PaCO2 of 78 mmHg, and PaO2 of 50 mmHg. She is in obvious respiratory distress with use of accessory muscles and retractions. Breath sounds are quiet with diffuse expiratory wheezing and rhonchi. No infiltrates are present on chest radiograph. Which of the following therapies has been demonstrated to have the greatest reduction in mortality rate for this patient? 
A.   Administration of inhaled bronchodilators B.   Administration of IV glucocorticoids C.   Early administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics with coverage of  P aeruginosa D.   Early intubation with mechanical ventilation E.   Use of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation 
VI-39.  A 63-year-old man with a long history of cigarette smoking comes to see you for a 4-month 
history of progressive shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. The symptoms have been indolent, with no recent worsening. He denies fever, chest pain, or hemoptysis. He has a daily cough of 3 to 6 tablespoons of yellow phlegm. The patient says he has not seen a physician for over 10 
years. Physical examination is notable for normal vital signs, a prolonged expiratory phase, scattered rhonchi, elevated jugular venous pulsation, and moderate pedal edema. Hematocrit is 49%. Which of the following therapies is most likely to prolong his survival? 
A.   Atenolol B.   Enalapril C.   Oxygen D.   Prednisone E.   Theophylline 
VI-40.  A 62-year-old man is evaluated for dyspnea on exertion that has progressively worsened over a 
period of 10 months. He has a 50-pack-year history of tobacco, quitting 10 years ago. On physical examination, has a resting oxygen saturation of 94%. After ambulation of 100 m, his saturation drops to 84%. He requires oxygen at 3 L/min to maintain his saturation at greater than 90% with ambulation. His lung examination shows diffuse end-inspiratory crackles throughout both lungs. His total lung capacity is 72% predicted, residual volume is 68% predicted, and diffusing capacity is 60% predicted. The high-resolution chest CT is shown in  Figure VI-40 . Serologic workup for autoimmune disease is unremarkable, and thorough history yields no exposures that would lead to these findings. You suspect idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. What is the expected finding on surgical pathology? 
FIGURE VI-40 
A.   Desquamative interstitial pneumonia B.   Diffuse alveolar damage C.   Loosely organized granulomatous inflammation and fibrosis D.   Nonspecific interstitial pneumonia E.   Usual interstitial pneumonia 
VI-41.  What is the recommended treatment for the patient in Question VI-40? 
A.   Azathioprine 125 mg daily plus prednisone 60 mg daily B.   Cyclophosphamide 100 mg daily C.   Nintedanib 150 mg twice a day D.   Prednisone 60 mg daily E.   No therapy is effective for treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 
VI-42.  What would be the expected finding on bronchoalveolar lavage in a patient with diffuse alveolar 
hemorrhage? 
A.   Atypical hyperplastic type II pneumocytes B.   Ferruginous bodies C.   Hemosiderin-laden macrophages D.   Lymphocytosis with an elevated CD4:CD8 ratio E.   Milky appearance with foamy macrophages 
VI-43.  A 42-year-old man presents with progressive dyspnea on exertion, low-grade fevers, and weight 
loss over 6 months. He also complains of a primarily dry cough, although occasionally he coughs up a thick mucoid sputum. There is no past medical history. He does not smoke cigarettes. On physical examination, the patient appears dyspneic with minimal exertion. The patient’s temperature is 37.9°C (100.3°F). Oxygen saturation is 91% on room air at rest. Faint basilar crackles are heard. On laboratory studies, the patient has polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and a hematocrit of 52%. A CT scan reveals bilateral alveolar infiltrates that are primarily perihilar in nature with a mosaic pattern. The patient undergoes bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage. The effluent appears milky. The cytopathology shows amorphous debris with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)–positive macrophages. What is the diagnosis? 
A.   Bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia B.   Desquamative interstitial pneumonitis C.   Nocardiosis D.    Pneumocystis carinii  pneumonia E.   Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis 
VI-44.  For the patient in Question VI-43, what treatment is most appropriate at this time? 
A.   Doxycycline B.   Prednisone C.   Prednisone and cyclophosphamide D.   Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole E.   Whole-lung lavage 
VI-45.  A 56-year-old woman presents for evaluation of dyspnea and cough for 2 months. During this 
time, she has also had intermittent fevers, malaise, and a 5.5-kg (12-lb) weight loss. She denies having any ill contacts and has not recently traveled. She works as a nurse, and a yearly purified protein derivative test performed 3 months ago was negative. She denies any exposure to organic dusts and does not have any birds as pets. She has no other exposures and no autoimmune symptoms. She takes no medications regularly. On physical examination, diffuse inspiratory crackles and squeaks are heard. A CT scan of the chest reveals patchy alveolar infiltrates and bronchial wall thickening. Pulmonary function testing reveals mild restriction. She undergoes a surgical lung biopsy. The pathology shows granulation tissue filling the small airways, alveolar ducts, and alveoli. The alveolar interstitium has chronic inflammation and organizing pneumonia. What is the most appropriate therapy for this patient? 
A.   Azathioprine 100 mg daily B.   Nintedanib 150 mg twice daily C.   Pirfenidone 2403 mg daily D.   Prednisone 1 mg/kg daily 
E.   Referral for lung transplantation 
VI-46.  A 53-year-old man is admitted with fevers and right pleuritic chest pain for 5 days. He has a 
history of alcohol dependence. On presentation, his temperature is 39.2°C, heart rate is 112 bpm, blood pressure is 102/62 mmHg, respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 92% on room air. He has absent breath sounds in the right lower chest with dullness to percussion and decreased tactile fremitus. Chest radiograph confirms a right lower lobe consolidation with associated effusion. The effusion is not free flowing. Initial thoracentesis demonstrates gross pus in the pleural space, and the Gram stain is positive for gram-positive cocci in pairs and chains. A large-bore chest tube is placed. Which of the following treatments should also be recommended in this patient to improved resolution of the empyema in this individual? 
A.   Immediate referral for decortication B.   Intrapleural instillation of alteplase 10 mg twice daily for 3 days C.   Intrapleural instillation of alteplase 10 mg plus deoxyribonuclease 5 mg twice daily for 3 days D.   Intrapleural instillation of deoxyribonuclease 5 mg twice daily for 3 days E.   Intrapleural instillation of streptokinase 250,000 IU 
VI-47.  A 44-year-old woman with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has acute hypoxemic 
respiratory failure due to  Pneumocystis jiroveci . She is intubated and mechanically ventilated with the following settings: assist-control, tidal volume 350 mL (6 mL/kg ideal body weight), FiO2 1.0, respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and PEEP 12 cmH2O. Her arterial blood gas values on these settings are as follows: pH 7.28, PaO2 68 mmHg, and PaCO2 64 mmHg. Her inspiratory plateau pressure is 26 cmH2O. You are called acutely to the bedside when her blood pressure abruptly drops to 70/40 mmHg. At the same time, the high-pressure alarms on the ventilator begin to alarm with peak airway pressures now registering at 55 cmH2O. Breath sounds are inaudible on the right side and are clear on the left. What is the best course of action at this time? 
A.   Administer a fluid bolus to improve venous return. B.   Disconnect the patient from the ventilator to allow a full exhalation. C.   Place a large-bore needle into the right second anterior intercostal space to alleviate a tension 
pneumothorax. 
D.   Sedate the patient to achieve ventilator synchrony. E.   Suction the patient to remove obstructing mucus plugs. 
VI-48.  A 62-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital with a community-acquired pneumonia with a 
4-day history of fever, cough, and right-sided pleuritic chest pain. The admission chest x-ray identifies a right lower and middle lobe infiltrate with an associated effusion. All of the following characteristics of the pleural effusion indicate a complicated effusion that may require tube thoracostomy EXCEPT: 
A.   Loculated fluid B.   Pleural fluid pH <7.20 C.   Pleural fluid glucose <60 mg/dL D.   Positive Gram stain or culture of the pleural fluid E.   Recurrence of fluid following the initial thoracentesis 
VI-49.  A 58-year-old man is evaluated for dyspnea and found to have a moderate right-sided pleural 
effusion. He undergoes thoracentesis with the following characteristics. 
Which of the following is NOT likely to be a cause of the pleural effusion in this patient? 
A.   Cirrhosis B.   Lung cancer C.   Mesothelioma D.   Pulmonary embolism E.   Tuberculosis 
VI-50.  A 28-year-old man presents to the emergency department with acute-onset shortness of breath 
and pleuritic chest pain on the right that began 2 hours previously. He is generally healthy and has no medical history. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily since the age of 18. On physical examination, he is tall and thin, with a body mass index of 19.2 kg/m2. He has a respiratory rate of 24 breaths/min with an oxygen saturation of 95% on room air. He has slightly decreased breath sounds at the right lung apex. A chest x-ray demonstrates a 20% pneumothorax on the right. Which of the following statements is true regarding pneumothorax in this patient? 
A.   A CT scan is likely to show emphysematous changes. B.   If the patient were to develop recurrent pneumothoraces, thoracoscopy with pleural abrasion has 
a success rate of near 100% for prevention of recurrence. 
C.   Most patients with this presentation require tube thoracostomy to resolve the pneumothorax. D.   The likelihood of recurrent pneumothorax is about 25%. 
E.   The primary risk factor for the development of spontaneous pneumothorax is a tall and thin body 
habitus. 
VI-51.  A 52-year-old woman from Indiana presents with worsening dyspnea on exertion and cough for a 
year. She denies dyspnea at rest. The cough is predominantly dry, but occasionally productive of a gritty mucus. Her past medical history is positive for hypertension and hypothyroidism. She takes benazepril and levothyroxine. She has primarily worked as a landscaper throughout her adult life. On physical examination, she appears in no distress. Her oxygen saturation is 95% on room air. Chest is clear to auscultation. Cardiovascular examination is unremarkable. She has no peripheral edema. The chest radiograph shows an old granuloma in the right lung and mediastinal calcifications. A CT scan is performed, which confirms the healed granuloma. Extensive mediastinal calcification is seen. The calcifications encase the superior vena cava and the right mainstem bronchus. An interferon-γ assay is negative. Which of the following statements regarding the patient’s conditions is true? 
A.   A urine  Histoplasma  antigen test will be positive. B.   The most common cause of the condition is histoplasmosis or tuberculosis. C.   The patient should be referred to a surgical center specialized in the treatment of this condition. D.   Treatment with corticosteroids will improve the patient’s condition. E.   Treatment with itraconazole or voriconazole will improve the patient’s condition. 
VI-52.  A 52-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital with lethargy and marked symptoms of volume 
overload. She has a past medical history of morbid obesity with a body mass index of 52 kg/m2, severe obstructive sleep apnea, hypertension, and type 1 diabetes mellitus. She is in generally poor health and has been noncompliant with her insulin as well as with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) as she reports claustrophobia. She cannot recall when she last used CPAP therapy. On physical examination, the patient is somnolent but arousable. Her vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 168/92 mmHg, heart rate 92 bpm, respiratory rate 14 breaths/min, afebrile, and SaO2 82% on room air. Her SaO2 increases to 92% on 6 L/min by nasal cannula, but her mental status becomes more lethargic. She has distant heart and lung sounds without crackles. There is 4+ edema bilaterally to the thighs and onto the abdominal wall. Chest x-ray shows low lung volumes. Initial arterial blood gas values on 6 L/min nasal oxygen are pH 7.22, PaCO2 88 mmHg, and PaO2 72 mmHg. Which of the following statements is true regarding the patient’s condition? 
A.   Abnormalities of the  PHOX2b  gene are associated with this condition. B.   CPAP therapy alone is adequate for treatment of this patient. C.   Initial treatment of the condition should include intubation and mechanical ventilation given the 
patient’s known intolerance of CPAP therapy. 
D.   Obstructive sleep apnea coexists with the diagnosis in about 75% of cases. E.   Weight loss will lead to improvements in PaCO2 over time. 
VI-53.  A patient with mild amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is followed by a pulmonologist for respiratory 
dysfunction associated with his neuromuscular disease. Which of the following symptoms in addition to PaCO2 ≥45 mmHg would necessitate therapy with noninvasive positive- pressure ventilation for hypoventilation? 
A.   Orthopnea B.   Poor quality sleep C.   Impaired cough D.   Dyspnea in activities of daily living E.   All of the above 
VI-54.  A 52-year-old man is evaluated for loud snoring and daytime fatigue. His wife urged him to come 
in for evaluation because his snoring has become increasingly disruptive over the past 2 years after he gained about 30 lb. She frequently sleeps in another room and reports that she has seen him stop breathing during sleep. During the day, he struggles to stay awake when he is in meetings or sitting at his computer, particularly after lunch. He has a 40-minute commute and has had to pull off the 
road due to feelings of sleepiness. He has a medical history of hypertension for the past 5 years and takes losartan 25 mg daily. He does not smoke and drinks one beer or glass of wine daily. His father, who is 75 years old, uses a CPAP machine for obstructive sleep apnea and has also had a myocardial infarction. On physical examination, the patient appears well. He has a body mass index of 37.1 kg/m2. When the patient opens his mouth, you can see most of his uvula, which appears somewhat edematous. Tonsillar tissue is visible and extends just beyond tonsillar pillars. The neck circumference is 43 cm. What is the next step in the evaluation and treatment of this patient? 
A.   Attended in-lab polysomnogram B.   Home sleep study C.   Overnight oximetry D.   Referral for tonsillectomy E.   Treatment with autotitrating CPAP 
VI-55.  A 48-year-old man has recently been diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea with an apnea- 
hypopnea index of 21.2/hr. He presents to the clinic for follow-up because he tried CPAP in the sleep laboratory and felt uncomfortable with it. He asks what the potential risks would be to his health if he chose to forego treatment. What advice do you give him? 
A.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea has an increased risk of mortality due to cardiovascular events 
including myocardial infarction and stroke. 
B.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea has an increased risk of depression. C.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with a sevenfold increased risk of automobile 
accidents. 
D.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea raises nocturnal blood pressure, and treatment with CPAP 
leads to a 2- to 4-mmHg drop in blood pressure. 
E.   All of the above is good advice to give to the patient. 
VI-56.  Which patient below is most likely to have the breathing pattern seen in  Figure VI-56  on 
polysomnography? 
FIGURE VI-56 
A.   A 6-year-old boy with poor school performance, snoring, and enlarged tonsils and adenoids B.   A 36-year-old woman with a history of heroin addiction who is being treated with methadone 
maintenance therapy at a dose of 100 mg daily 
C.   A 48-year-old man evaluated for loud snoring and excessive sleepiness with a body mass index of 
36.8 kg/m2 
awakenings in the setting of menopause; she does not snore 
E.   A 68-year-old man with atrial fibrillation and ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction 
of 15%; on examination, he has elevation of the jugular venous pressure, hepatojugular reflux, and 3+ peripheral edema 
VI-57.  A 48-year-old man with a body mass index of 28.9 kg/m2 is diagnosed with obstructive sleep 
apnea with an apnea-hypopnea index of 42/hr and a minimum oxygen saturation of 78%. What is the most appropriate initial therapy for this patient? 
A.   CPAP B.   Oral appliance therapy C.   Oxygen therapy D.   Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty E.   Weight loss 
VI-58.  A 47-year-old woman with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension has failed medical therapy 
including IV epoprostenol. She has advanced right heart failure with severe right ventricular dysfunction on echocardiography and a cardiac index of 1.7 L/min/m2. She is referred for lung transplantation. Which of the following statements is true? 
A.   She will require heart-lung transplantation for her advanced right heart failure. 
B.   Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension patients have worse 5-year survival than other 
transplant recipients. 
C.   Single-lung transplantation is the preferred surgical procedure for idiopathic pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. 
D.   Her own right ventricular function will recover after lung transplantation. E.   She is at risk for recurrent pulmonary arterial hypertension after lung transplantation. 
VI-59.  A 25-year-old woman with cystic fibrosis is referred for lung transplantation. She is concerned 
about her long-term outcome. Which of the following is the main impediment to long-term survival after lung transplantation? 
A.   Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome B.   Cytomegalovirus infection C.   Chronic kidney disease D.   Primary graft dysfunction E.   Posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder 
VI-60.  A 30-year-old man with end-stage cystic fibrosis undergoes lung transplantation. Three years 
later, he has a 6-month progressive decline in his renal function. Which of the following medications is the most likely etiology of this? 
A.   Prednisone B.   Tacrolimus C.   Albuterol D.   Mycophenolate mofetil E.   None of the above 
VI-61.  A 48-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with acute respiratory distress syndrome and shock 
due to ascending cholangitis. Her Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation Score (APACHE II) is 19 at 24 hours. Which statement best describes the performance of severity of illness scoring systems in predicting outcomes for a patient such as the one described? 
A.   The APACHE II score and other severity of illness tools are useful for informing clinical research 
in critical illness, especially regarding severity of illness in patients enrolled in clinical trials. 
B.   The APACHE II score is an important predictor of individual mortality when directly applied to 
patient care. 
C.   The APACHE II score should be used to guide therapy in this patient. D.   The Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II) would perform better at predicting mortality 
than the APACHE II score. 
E.   All of the above are true. 
VI-62.  A 42-year-old man is admitted to the ICU after an automobile accident. He suffered a compound 
fracture of the femur and also had internal bleeding from a ruptured spleen and liver hematoma. He has undergone splenectomy and fixation of the femur fracture. He is intubated and sedated following surgery. His hemoglobin after surgery is 5.2 g/dL. His oxygen saturation is 92%, and his PaO2 is 72 mmHg on FiO2 of 0.6. A pulmonary artery catheter was placed during surgery. His cardiac output is 7.8 L/min. A lactate level is 4.8 mmol/L. Which of the following is the least important factor affecting oxygen delivery in this patient? 
A.   Cardiac output B.   Hemoglobin concentration C.   PaO2D.   SaO2 
 A 67-year-old woman was admitted to the ICU with multilobar pneumonia due to  Streptococcus 
pneumoniae  and COPD. She requires intubation and mechanical ventilation. All of the following are appropriate interventions to prevent complications in the ICU EXCEPT: 
A.   Administration of enoxaparin 40 mg daily B.   Administration of omeprazole 20 mg daily C.   Aggressive blood glucose control D.   Early mobilization and physical therapy while mechanically ventilated E.   Use of a standard care bundle for insertion of central lines 
VI-64.  A 68-year-old man is admitted to the ICU with fevers, hypotension, and hypoxemia. He has felt ill 
for the past 2 to 3 days with progressive dyspnea at home. He has a history of COPD, coronary artery disease requiring three-vessel coronary artery bypass surgery, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. He continues to smoke a pack of cigarettes daily and also drinks a six-pack of beer daily. On presentation, his room air oxygen saturation is 79%. With a non-rebreather mask, his oxygen saturation remains at 87%. His blood pressure is 74/40 mmHg, and heart rate is 124 bpm. After fluid bolus, his blood pressure remains low at 86/53 mmHg. His chest radiograph is shown in  Figure VI- 64 . Within 12 hours after admission, blood cultures are positive for  S pneumoniae . He received his first dose of antibiotics in the emergency department and remains on treatment with ceftriaxone and moxifloxacin. He is intubated, sedated, and currently on vasopressor support. His blood gas after intubation is pH 7.28, PaCO2 52 mmHg, and PaO2 64 mmHg on FiO2 0.8. Which of the following best identifies the patient’s diagnosis? 
FIGURE VI-64 
A.   Acute interstitial pneumonia B.   Mild acute respiratory distress syndrome C.   Moderate acute respiratory distress syndrome 
D.   Multilobar community acquired pneumonia E.   Severe acute respiratory distress syndrome 
VI-65.  If a lung biopsy were to be taken 4 days after admission in the patient described in Question VI- 
64, which statement correctly identifies the expected findings? 
A.   Diffuse alveolar damage with hyaline membranes and protein-rich edema fluid in alveoli B.   Extensive eosinophil-rich infiltrate with protein-rich edema fluid C.   Extensive fibrosis of the alveolar ducts with development of bullae D.   Homogeneous infiltrate of neutrophils and leukocytes affecting all alveolar spaces E.   Proliferation of type II pneumocytes and presence of a lymphocyte-rich pulmonary infiltrate 
VI-66.  A 48-year-old woman is admitted to the surgical ICU following a motor vehicle accident. She has 
suffered a concussion, fractures of ribs 4 through 8 on the left with a hemopneumothorax, and a lacerated spleen that required splenectomy. During the surgery to remove her spleen, she required transfusion of 6 units of packed red blood cells, 6 units of platelets, and 4 units of fresh frozen plasma. Upon admission to the ICU after surgery, she remains intubated and sedated. A chest tube is in place on the left. Her chest radiograph shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates. The left lung has dense infiltrates, and there are also extensive infiltrates on the right. She is diagnosed with a left lung contusion and acute respiratory distress syndrome. She weighs 90 kg. She is 66 inches in height. Her ideal body weight is 59 kg. Her oxygen saturation on FiO2 1.0 is 92% with an arterial blood gas showing pH of 7.28, PaCO2 of 48 mmHg, and PaO2 of 68 mmHg. What is the best initial tidal volume in this patient? 
A.   236 mL B.   354 mL C.   472 mL D.   540 mL E.   590 mL 
VI-67.  You are managing a patient admitted to the medical ICU for severe acute respiratory distress 
syndrome due to necrotizing pancreatitis. The patient has an ideal body weight of 70 kg. The patient’s ventilator is set on a volume control with a respiratory rate of 28 bpm, tidal volume of 420 mL, FiO2 of 0.7, and PEEP of 8 cmH2O. The patient is hypoxemic with an SaO2 of 86% on these settings. You review the static pressure-volume curve for the respiratory system. The lower inflection point is at 12 cmH2O. The upper inflection point is at 30 cmH2O. Measured pressure with an inspiratory hold is 26 cmH2O. Which of the following is the best choice to improve oxygenation in this patient? 
A.   Administer a paralytic agent B.   Decrease tidal volume to 350 mL C.   Increase FiO2 to 0.8 D.   Increase PEEP to 12 cmH2O E.   Increase tidal volume to 560 mL 
VI-68.  A 75-year-old man is admitted to the ICU for sepsis in the setting of neutropenia due to 
chemotherapy for gastric cancer. He has severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and requires intubation. During the first 48 hours of his ICU stay, his volume status is positive 6 L. Which of the following statements regarding fluid management in acute respiratory distress syndrome is true? 
A.   Aggressive diuresis to maintain a low left atrial filling pressure is associated with increased risk 
of acute kidney injury requiring hemodialysis. 
B.   Maintaining a low left atrial filling pressure through diuresis improves lung compliance and 
improves oxygenation. 
C.   Maintaining a low left atrial filling pressure through diuresis shortens ICU stay and decreases 
mortality in the medical intensive care unit, but not the surgical ICU. 
D.   Placement of a pulmonary arterial catheter for accurate measurement of left atrial filling pressure 
improves diagnostic accuracy and provides added benefit in determining fluid management strategy. 
VI-69.  In which of the following situations would noninvasive mechanical ventilation be considered 
contraindicated? 
A.   Acute exacerbation of COPD B.   Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure in an individual with acute respiratory distress syndrome C.   Acute myocardial infarction D.   Decompensated systolic heart failure without acute myocardial ischemia E.   After extubation in an individual who had been intubated for COPD 
VI-70. to VI-73.  Match the mode of ventilation with its description. 
VI-70.  Assist-control ventilation 
VI-71.  Intermittent mandatory ventilation 
VI-72.  Pressure control ventilation 
VI-73.  Pressure support ventilation 
A.   This mode of ventilation is time triggered and time cycle and pressure limited. The tidal volume 
and inspiratory flow rate are dependent upon lung compliance. 
B.   This mode of ventilation provides a set minute ventilation based on respiratory rate and tidal 
volume. Spontaneous breaths above the set respiratory rate may be supported in a pressure mode. 
C.   This mode of ventilation is the most common mode of mechanical ventilation. Each breath, 
whether triggered by the patient or the ventilator, provides a prespecified tidal volume. 
D.   This mode of ventilation is patient trigged, flow cycled, and pressure limited. Use of this mode of 
ventilation requires a patient to be spontaneously breathing. 
VI-74.  A 62-year-old woman was intubated for community-acquired pneumonia and sepsis. Upon 
admission to the ICU, she was hypotensive and required vasopressor treatment. She was sedated with propofol to achieve comfort on the ventilator. The ICU has a daily protocol for sedation interruption. She currently has been intubated for 8 days. Which of the following is a contraindication to a spontaneous breathing trial in this patient? 
A.   Improving infiltrates on chest radiograph B.   FiO2 of 0.45 C.   Ongoing need for vasopressor support D.   Patient is breathing over the set respiratory rate by 8 breaths/min E.   PEEP of 8 cmH2O 
VI-75.  All of the following statements regarding the pathophysiology of shock are true EXCEPT: 
A.   Hypotension inhibits the vasomotor center, resulting in decreased adrenergic output and 
increased vagal activity. 
B.   Metabolic changes, including glycolysis and lipolysis, raise extracellular osmolarity, leading to an 
osmotic gradient that increases interstitial volume at the expense of intracellular fluid volume. 
C.   Mitochondrial dysfunction and uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation lead to decreased 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels and a consequent accumulation of lactate and other reactive oxygen species. 
D.   Proinflammatory mediators stimulated by the innate immune system contribute significantly to 
multiple organ dysfunction and failure in shock. 
E.   Severe stress or pain causes increased release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), 
subsequently increasing cortisol levels to increase gluconeogenesis, decrease peripheral uptake of glucose and amino acids, and enhance lipolysis. 
VI-76.  A person is admitted to the neurologic ICU with a C2-3 spinal cord transection. The patient is in 
shock with a blood pressure of 72/40 mmHg. What would the expected findings be on a pulmonary artery catheter? 
VI-77.  All of the following statements regarding the epidemiology of sepsis and septic shock are true 
EXCEPT: 
A.   Gram-positive bacteria are the most commonly isolated causative organisms in sepsis syndromes. B.   In individuals with septic shock, blood cultures are positive in 40%–70% of cases. C.   Most cases of sepsis occur in individuals with significant underlying illness. D.   Respiratory infections are the most common cause of sepsis syndromes. E.   The annual incidence of severe sepsis has increased over the past 30 years with a current 
incidence of approximately 3 per 1000 population. 
VI-78.  A 62-year-old woman presents to the emergency department for evaluation of fevers and 
respiratory symptoms. She began to feel ill about 2 days ago, and her symptoms have been progressively worse since that time. She has a past medical history of rheumatoid arthritis and takes adalimumab 40 mg every other week. On presentation in the emergency department, the patient appears acutely ill and dyspneic. Her oxygen saturation is 84% on room air with a respiratory rate of 25 breaths/min. Initial blood pressure is 82/44 mmHg, heart rate is 132 bpm, and temperature is 101.9°F. She has crackles over the entire lower half of her right lung. Her chest radiograph shows consolidation of the right lower and middle lobes without a pleural effusion. Blood and sputum cultures are drawn. The patient is begun on IV hydration and treatment with ceftriaxone and moxifloxacin. After 2 hours, the patient has received 2 L of normal saline. Her blood pressure is 98/70 mmHg with a heart rate of 125 bpm. She is requiring 50% oxygen by nasal mask to maintain her SaO2 at 92%–94%. Since presentation to the emergency department, she has produced 100 mL of urine. A blood gas is performed with a pH of 7.46, PaCO2 of 32 mmHg, and PaO2 of 76 mmHg. How would this patient’s presentation be classified? 
A.   Refractory septic shock B.   Septic shock C.   Sepsis D.   Signs of possibly harmful systemic response E.   Systemic inflammatory response syndrome 
VI-79.  A 68-year-old man is admitted to the ICU with septic shock. He initially presented with 
hypotension and fever to 102.5°F. After a 3-L normal saline bolus, he continues to be hypotensive and requires vasopressor support with norepinephrine at 10  μ g/min. On presentation, no source of infection is readily apparent. Blood and urine cultures are obtained. The patient is unable to expectorate sputum. The patient’s past medical history is significant for COPD, coronary artery disease, and alcohol abuse. He also was in a motor vehicle accident 20 years ago that resulted in splenectomy. He has no medication allergies. The local incidence of cephalosporin-resistant  S pneumoniae  is >1%. Which of the following is the recommended empiric antibiotic regimen for this patient? 
A.   Cefotaxime B.   Cefotaxime plus vancomycin C.   Levofloxacin D.   Levofloxacin plus vancomycin E.   Vancomycin 
VI-80.  Despite appropriate antibiotic therapy and supportive care, the mortality related to sepsis 
remains high with 40%–60% of patients with septic shock dying within 30 days. Multiple therapies have been attempted to improve this mortality, but many of these have been found to be ineffective after initially promising results. Examples of these include all of the following EXCEPT: 
A.   Activated protein C B.   Erythrocyte transfusions to maintain a hemoglobin level >7 g/dL C.   Insulin therapy to achieve tight glucose control (100–120 mg/dL) D.   Performance of adrenocorticotropin hormone stimulation tests for adrenal insufficiency E.   Tissue factor pathway inhibitor 
VI-81.  A 62-year-old man is brought to the emergency department for chest pain that developed while 
he was shoveling snow after a winter storm. The pain started abruptly 30 minutes ago and is associated with shortness of breath and nausea. The pain is rated a 10 out of 10, has an intense pressure-like quality, and is radiating down his left arm. He called for an ambulance within 10 minutes of the onset of pain. He has a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, tobacco use, and alcohol abuse. He has been prescribed candesartan 16 mg daily and atorvastatin 10 mg daily. However, he has not seen his doctor in more than a year. He continues to smoke 1.5 packs of tobacco daily and also drinks 6–10 beers daily. On presentation, his blood pressure is 84/50 mmHg, heart rate is 132 bpm, respiratory rate is 28 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 91% on room air. He appears in severe distress due to pain and dyspnea. He is diaphoretic and pale. His cardiovascular examination shows a regular tachycardia with a soft S1, and an S3 gallop is present. There are crackles bilaterally present throughout both lungs. His pulses are thready and weak. Chest radiograph shows pulmonary edema. His ECG is shown in  Figure VI-81 . 
FIGURE VI-81  From Crawford MH:  Current Diagnosis & Treatment: Cardiology , 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2009. 
He is having frequent ectopy and short runs of ventricular tachycardia. The patient is given nitroglycerin 
and aspirin. The cardiac catheterization laboratory is being readied for primary revascularization. However, in the meantime, the patient continues to decline. He is intubated. His blood pressure continues to fall and is most recently 76/52 mmHg with a heart rate of 122 bpm. What is the best option for initial treatment of hypotension in this patient? 
A.   Dopamine 5  μ g/kg/min IV continuous infusion B.   Initiation of venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation C.   Nitroglycerin 10  μ g/min IV continuous infusion D.   Placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump E.   Vasopressin 0.05 U/min IV continuous infusion 
VI-82.  A 72-year-old man with known ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy and an ejection fraction of 20% 
is admitted to the coronary care unit with decompensated heart failure. His blood pressure is 74/56 mmHg, and heart rate is 108 bpm. His oxygen saturation is 85% on a non-rebreather mask. His chest radiograph shows diffuse pulmonary edema and bilateral effusions. There is 4+ pitting edema bilaterally throughout both legs and in the sacrum. He has evidence of ascites. His extremities are cool to touch and cyanotic. His mental status is poor. He is lethargic and does not respond to his name. All of the following would be indicated in the initial treatment of this patient EXCEPT: 
A.   Dobutamine 5  μ g/kg/min IV B.   Furosemide 60 mg IV C.   Initiation of mechanical ventilation D.   Morphine 2 mg IV E.   Norepinephrine 5  μ g/min IV 
VI-83.  A 52-year-old woman is in the coronary care unit after an acute myocardial infarction in the 
anterior distribution. She was revascularized with a primary percutaneous angioplasty of the proximal left anterior descending artery. Twelve hours after the procedures, you are called to the bedside for an acute decline in blood pressure and dyspnea. Two hours previously, her blood pressure was 115/72 mmHg. Her current blood pressure is 90/78 mmHg. Her heart rate has increased from 88 to 120 bpm. Her oxygen saturation has declined to 86% on room air. She is diaphoretic and pale. She appears in marked distress. There is development of a new cardiac holosystolic murmur heard at the apex and radiating across the precordium into the left axilla. You suspect acute mitral regurgitation. Which of the following would be the expected findings if a pulmonary artery catheter was in place? 
VI-84.  All of the following statements regarding sudden cardiac death are true EXCEPT: 
A.   An individual can be classified as having sudden cardiac death following a resuscitated cardiac 
arrest if death occurs during the subsequent hospitalization or within the next 30 days. 
B.   Approximately 66% of individuals who experience sudden cardiac death have had prior cardiac 
events. 
C.   Asystole is the most commonly encountered rhythm in an individual with sudden cardiac death. D.   Parental history of sudden cardiac death as a first cardiac event increases the probability of a 
sudden cardiac event in offspring. 
E.   The incidence of sudden cardiac death is higher in the African American population compared to 
the white population. 
VI-85.  Which of the following states correctly identifies a patient in a coma? 
A.   Akinetic mutism B.   Catatonia C.   Locked-in state D.   Metabolic encephalopathy E.   Persistent vegetative state 
VI-86.  A 74-year-old woman was admitted to the neurologic ICU with decreased alertness that 
progressed to coma following a fall on an icy sidewalk. On physical examination, the patient is minimally responsive to painful stimuli. The left pupil is enlarged. Right Babinski is upgoing, and there is apparent weakness of the right side. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is performed ( Figure VI-86 ). What is the etiology of the coma in this patient? 
FIGURE VI-86 
A.   Compression of the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries B.   Compression of the midbrain against the opposite tentorial edge C.   Compression of the opposite cerebral peduncle against the tentorial edge D.   Displacement of the cerebellar tonsils into the foramen magnum E.   Entrapment of the ventricular system causing hydrocephalus 
VI-87.  A 44-year-old woman is admitted to the intensive care unit with decreased alertness. She was 
brought to the hospital after she was found unresponsive at home when she failed to show up for lunch with her mother. She has been feeling depressed after losing her job 2 months ago. She lives alone after a divorce 10 years ago. She has no pertinent past medical history, but her mother is uncertain whether the patient takes any medications. Her blood pressure on admission is 92/54 mmHg, heart rate is 112 bpm, respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 99% on room air. Temperature is 38.2°C. She appears flushed and has deep rapid breathing. She is unresponsive to voice, but withdraws to painful stimuli. She has intermittent muscular spasms diffusely. Her pupils 
are 5 mm and reactive. What is the most likely etiology of the patient’s coma? 
A.   Concussion B.   Cortical vein thrombosis C.   Drug intoxication D.   Systemic infection E.   Meningeal infection 
VI-88.  A 48-year-old man was admitted to the ICU with a large intracranial bleed following a 
motorcycle accident. On initial CT scan, there was midline shift and evidence of uncal herniation. At the scene of the accident, the patient was initially minimally response but has been totally unresponsive to all stimuli since admission. The patient was intubated by emergency medical services en route to the hospital. He has now been admitted for 24 hours. You believe the patient is brain dead. Which of the following contributes to the diagnosis of brain death? 
A.   Absence of pupillary light reflex B.   Apnea C.   Loss of oculovestibular reflexes D.   Unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation E.   All of the above are criteria for assessment of brain death. 
VI-89.  Intraparenchymal intracranial pressure monitoring is preferred over ventriculostomy in which of 
the following patients? 
A.   A 24-year-old man admitted with traumatic brain injury following a motor vehicle accident and a 
Glasgow Coma Scale score of 6 
B.   A 35-year-old woman with autoimmune hepatitis admitted with fulminant hepatic failure and an 
international normalized ratio of 3.5 
C.   A 48-year-old man admitted to the ICU with subarachnoid hemorrhage following a rupture of an 
anterior cerebral artery aneurysm 
D.   A 68-year-old woman admitted with a hemorrhagic stroke in the right temporal region with 
associated midline shift visualized on CT scan 
E.   All of the above are appropriate candidates for ventriculostomy. 
VI-90.  A 55-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU following a subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a 
rupture of the posterior communicating artery. The patient is treated with intravascular placement of a coil in the aneurysm, and a ventriculostomy is placed for intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring. Upon arrival to the ICU after surgery, she is intubated and minimally responsive to painful stimuli. She does not respond to voice. The initial ICP is 45 mmHg, and the initial blood pressure is 138/85 mmHg (mean arterial pressure, 103 mmHg) with the head of the bed elevated at 30 degrees. The ICP remains at 45 mmHg over the next 5 minutes. What would you recommend next in the management of this patient? 
A.   Administer 30 mL of 23.4% hypertonic saline B.   Administer dexamethasone 4 mg every 6 hours C.   Do nothing as patient has an adequate cerebral perfusion pressure D.   Drain ventriculostomy to attain an ICP <20–25 mmHg E.   Increase respiratory rate on the ventilator to decrease the PaCO2 to 30 mmHg 
VI-91.  A 56-year-old man is admitted to the hospital following a witnessed cardiac arrest. Upon arrival 
of emergency medical personnel, the rhythm is ventricular fibrillation. The patient is cardioverted into sinus rhythm with return of spontaneous circulation. His estimated duration without circulation is 10 minutes. ECG demonstrated evidence of acute myocardial infarction in an anterior distribution. The patient is treated with primary angioplasty of a 100% occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery. He is brought to the ICU intubated and requires use of norepinephrine to maintain his mean arterial pressure greater than 60 mmHg. Initial neurologic examination shows absence of corneal and gag reflexes. When you move the head side to side, the eyes move in concert with the 
head movement and do not stay fixed. Intermittent myoclonus is present. You are considering use of hypothermia. Which of the following statements correctly characterizes the use of hypothermia in this patient? 
A.   A head CT should be performed to determine the extent of cerebral edema before deciding upon 
whether to employ therapeutic hypothermia. 
B.   Temperature management should be directed at prevention of fevers only with a target 
temperature of 36°C. 
C.   Therapeutic hypothermia is recommended to target a temperature of 32–34°C for 24 hours. D.   There is no role for therapeutic hypothermia because the patient’s prognosis is very poor. E.   There is no role for therapeutic hypothermia because it does not change patient outcomes. 
VI-92.  A 67-year-old man has been in the ICU for 3 weeks after admission for sepsis due to 
pneumococcal pneumonia. He is currently on minimal ventilatory support with inspiratory pressure support of 15 cmH2O and expiratory pressure of 5 cmH2O. The FiO2 is 0.4. Spontaneous tidal volumes on these settings average 450 mL. He is no longer sedated, appears alert, and is following commands. He appears weak and debilitated. He is not able to lift his arms or legs off the bed. His chest radiograph shows marked improvement in the bilateral infiltrates. For the past week, he has failed spontaneous breathing trials. When the inspiratory pressure support is dropped to less than 10 cmH2O, the patient begins to breathe rapidly at 28 breaths/min, and the tidal volume drops to 220 mL. What is the most likely cause of the patient’s inability to be liberated from the ventilator? 
A.   Critical illness myopathy B.   Critical illness polyneuropathy C.   Fibroproliferative progression of acute respiratory distress syndrome D.   Guillain-Barré syndrome E.   ICU-associated delirium 
VI-93.  A 56-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with a thunderclap headache and a rupture of an 
aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery. She is treated with endovascular coiling. On admission to the ICU, she was originally intubated and sedated. Over the course of 4 days, she is extubated but continues to demonstrate right hemiparesis and aphasia. Seven days after her presentation, she abruptly declines with alert mental status and marked worsening of her hemiparesis. A head CT is performed urgently and does not show any progression of bleeding or widening of the ventricles. She has been on nimodipine 60 mg every 4 hours since presentation. What is the most likely diagnosis for her worsened condition? 
A.   Cerebral edema B.   Hydrocephalus C.   Hyponatremia D.   Rerupture of the coiled aneurysm E.   Vasospasm 
VI-94.  What treatment would you recommend for the patient in Question VI-93 at this time? 
A.   Consult neurosurgery for clipping of the aneurysm B.   Free water restriction C.   Placement of a ventriculostomy D.   Intubation with hyperventilation and treatment with mannitol E.   Intravenous norepinephrine and consultation for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
VI-95.  A 64-year-old man presents to the emergency department complaining of shortness of breath and 
facial swelling. He smokes one pack of cigarettes daily and has done so since the age of 16. On physical examination, he appears dyspneic at an angle of 45 degrees or less. His vital signs are as follows: heart rate 124 bpm, blood pressure 164/98 mmHg, respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, temperature 37.6°C (99.6°F), and oxygen saturation 89% on room air. Pulsus paradoxus is not present. His neck veins are dilated and do not collapse with inspiration. Collateral venous dilation is 
noted on the upper chest wall. There is facial edema and 1+ edema of the upper extremities bilaterally. Cyanosis is present. There is dullness to percussion and decreased breath sounds over the lower half of the right lung field. Given this clinical scenario, what would be the most likely finding on CT examination of the chest? 
A.   A central mass lesion obstructing the right mainstem bronchus B.   A large apical mass invading the chest wall and brachial plexus C.   A large pericardial effusion D.   A massive pleural effusion leading to opacification of the right hemithorax E.   Enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes causing obstruction of the superior vena cava 
VI-96.  In the scenario described in Question VI-95, the initial therapy of this patient includes all of the 
following EXCEPT: 
A.   Administration of furosemide as needed to achieve diuresis B.   Elevation of the head of the bed to 45 degrees C.   Emergent radiation D.   Low-sodium diet E.   Oxygen 
VI-97.  A 58-year-old woman with known stage IV breast cancer presents to the emergency department 
with inability to move her legs. She has had lower back pain for the past 4 days and has found it difficult to lie down. There is no radiating pain. Earlier today, the patient lost the ability to move either of her legs. In addition, she has been incontinent of urine recently. She was diagnosed previously with metastatic disease to the lung and pleura from her breast cancer but was not known to have spinal or brain metastases. Her physical examination confirms absence of movement in the bilateral lower extremities associated with decreased to absent sensation below the umbilicus. There is increased tone and 3+ deep tendon reflexes in the lower extremities with crossed adduction. Anal sphincter tone is decreased, and the anal wink reflex is absent. What is the most important first step to take in the management of this patient? 
A.   Administration of dexamethasone 10 mg IV B.   Consult neurosurgery for emergent spinal decompression C.   Consult radiation oncology for emergent spinal radiation D.   Perform MRI of the brain E.   Perform MRI of the entire spinal cord 
VI-98.  A 21-year-old man is treated with induction chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. His 
initial white blood cell count prior to treatment was 156,000/ μ L. All of the following are expected complications during his treatment EXCEPT: 
A.   Acute kidney injury B.   Hypercalcemia C.   Hyperkalemia D.   Hyperphosphatemia E.   Hyperuricemia 
VI-99.  All of the following would be important for prevention of the complications described in Question 
VI-98 EXCEPT: 
A.   Administration of allopurinol 300 mg/m2 daily 
B.   Administration of IV fluids at a minimum of 3000 mL/m2 daily C.   Alkalinization of the urine to a pH of greater than 7.0 by administration of sodium bicarbonate D.   Frequent monitoring of serum chemistries every 4 hours E.   Prophylactic hemodialysis prior to initiating chemotherapy 
The answer is A. (Chap. 305)  The obstructive lung diseases are characterized by a reduction in 
the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1)/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio, typically below 0.70. The typical lung diseases that manifest with airways obstruction include chronic obstructive lung disease (which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis), asthma, bronchiectasis, and bronchiolitis. Asbestosis (Chap. 311) is a lung disease caused by the inhalation of asbestos fibers. It is a fibrotic lung disease and typically manifests with a restrictive ventilator defect and gas transfer defect (reduced diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide [DLCO]) on pulmonary function testing. 
VI-2. The answer is B. (Chap. 305)  The alveolar-arterial oxygen (A-a O2) difference can be helpful in 
distinguishing hypoventilation (elevated partial pressure of carbon dioxide [PCO2]) as a cause of hypoxemia. The A-a O2 difference on room air should be less than 15 mmHg in a young adult and typically increases slightly with age. The A-a O2 difference cannot easily be interpreted when the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) is greater than 0.21. The A-a O2 difference on room air is elevated in situations of hypoxemia due to ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) mismatch, shunt, or diffusion defect. It will be normal when the hypoxemia is solely due to hypoventilation. In this case, the gradient is 7.5 mmHg, consistent with hypoventilation secondary to a presumed narcotic overdose. Asthma and pulmonary embolism typically cause hypoxemia due to V/Q mismatch. Pneumococcal and pneumocystis pneumonias cause hypoxemia for multifactorial reasons, including shunt. 
VI-3. The answer is B. (Chap. 306e)  The functional residual capacity of the lung refers to the volume 
of air that remains in the lung following a normal tidal respiration. This volume of air represents the point at which the outward recoil of the chest wall is in equilibrium with the inward elastic recoil of the lungs. The lungs would remain at this volume if not for the actions of the respiratory muscles. The functional residual capacity is comprised of two lung volumes: the expiratory reserve volume and the residual volume. The expiratory reserve volume represents the additional volume of air that can be exhaled from the lungs when acted upon by the respiratory muscles of exhalation. The residual volume is the volume of air that remains in the lung following a complete exhalation and is determined by the closing pressure of the small airways. 
VI-4. The answer is D. (Chap. 306e)  This patient is presenting with subacute dyspnea, stridor, and 
airflow obstruction, which are consistent with a diagnosis of subglottic stenosis related to his prior prolonged mechanical ventilation. This is confirmed by the finding of fixed airflow obstruction on the flow-volume loop. Flow-volume loops are derived from spirometry. Following a maximum inspiratory effort from residual volume, an individual forces the maximum volume of air from their lungs, and the resultant flows are plotted against the volume. By convention, inspiration is shown on the lower portion of the curve and expiration is on the top. There are characteristic patterns of airflow obstruction that can be evaluated by examining this curve. A fixed central airflow obstruction results in flattening of the flow-volume loop in both inspiration and expiration, yielding the characteristic box-like effect, as shown in  Figure VI-4B . Examples of fixed airflow obstruction include tracheal stenosis and an obstructing central airway tumor. Other patterns of large airway obstruction are a variable intrathoracic obstruction and variable extrathoracic obstruction. In these situations, flattening of the flow-volume curve occurs on only one limb of the flow-volume loop, and the pattern of flattening can be explained by the dynamic changes in pressure that affect the trachea. A variable intrathoracic obstruction causes flattening of the flow-volume curve only on expiration. During inspiration, the pleural pressure is more negative than the tracheal pressure, and the trachea remains unimpeded to flow. However, when pleural pressure rises on expiration relative to tracheal pressure, there is collapse of the trachea and flattening of flow-volume curve. An example of a variable intrathoracic obstruction is tracheomalacia. In contrast, the variable extrathoracic defect leads to flattening of the flow- volume loop on inspiration but not expiration. The relevant pressure acting on airflow in the 
trachea in an extrathoracic obstruction is atmospheric pressure. During inspiration, the tracheal pressure drops below atmospheric pressure, leading to compromised airflow and the characteristic flattening of the flow-volume loop. However, tracheal pressure rises above atmospheric pressure during expiration, leading to a normal expiratory curve. 
FIGURE VI-4B  Flow-volume loops.  A.  Normal.  B.  Airflow obstruction.  C.  Fixed central airway obstruction. RV, residual volume; TLC, total lung capacity. 
VI-5. The answer is B. (Chap. 306e)  Pregnancy is a known risk factor for the development of venous 
thromboembolic disease and should be suspected in any pregnant patient presenting with acute dyspnea. Determining the need for further testing in a pregnant patient should take into account the potential risks of radiation exposure on the fetus. Unfortunately, the signs and symptoms of pulmonary embolism are often nonspecific. Most chest x-rays are normal, and sinus tachycardia may be the only finding on electrocardiogram (ECG). In addition, in the pregnant patient, dyspnea is common due to a variety of factors including the effects of progesterone as a central respiratory stimulant and increased size of the uterus later in pregnancy. The normal arterial blood gas in pregnancy shows a chronic respiratory alkalosis with a pH ranging as high as 7.47 and partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide (PaCO2) between 30 and 32 mmHg. Calculation of the alveolar-arterial gradient (A-a gradient) can be helpful in this situation. It is easy to be fooled by the presence of a normal oxygen saturation and partial pressure of oxygen on arterial blood gas, but the A-a gradient may still be elevated in the presence of respiratory alkalosis. In this case, the A-a gradient is elevated at 32 mmHg (should be <15 in a young adult in second trimester of pregnancy) and should prompt the physician to perform further workup for pulmonary embolism. The choice of test for diagnosis pulmonary embolism in pregnant patients is most commonly computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiography, although ventilation- perfusion scanning may also be used. 
VI-6 .  VI-7 ,  VI-8 ,  and VI-9. The answers are C, B, D, and A, respectively. (Chap. 306e)  Ventilatory 
function can be easily measured with lung volume measurement and the FEV1/FVC ratio. A decreased FEV1/FVC ratio is characteristic of obstructive lung diseases. Alternatively, low lung volumes, specifically decreased total lung capacity (TLC), and occasionally decreased residual volume (RV) are characteristic of restrictive lung diseases. With extensive air trapping in obstructive lung disease, TLC is often increased, and RV may also be increased. Vital capacity (VC) is proportionally decreased. Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) measures respiratory muscle strength and is decreased in patients with neuromuscular disease. Thus, myasthenia gravis will produce low lung volumes and decreased MIP, whereas patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis will have normal muscle strength and subsequently a normal MIP but decreased TLC and RV. In some cases of pulmonary parenchymal restrictive lung disease, the increase in elastic recoil results in an increased FEV1/FVC ratio. The hallmark of obstructive lung disease, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), is a decreased FEV1/FVC ratio. 
VI-10. The answer is C. (Chap. 306e)  In this patient presenting with multilobar pneumonia, 
hypoxemia is present that does not correct with increasing the concentration of inspired oxygen. The inability to overcome hypoxemia or the lack of a notable increase in partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) or oxygen saturation (SaO2) with increasing fraction of inspired oxygen physiologically defines a shunt. A shunt occurs when deoxygenated blood is transported to the left heart and systemic circulation without having the capability of becoming oxygenated. Causes of shunt include alveolar collapse (atelectasis), intra-alveolar filling processes, intrapulmonary vascular malformations, or structural cardiac disease leading to right-to-left shunt. In this case, the patient has multilobar pneumonia leading to alveoli that are being perfused but unable to participate in gas exchange because they are filled with pus and inflammatory exudates. Acute respiratory distress syndrome is another common cause of shunt physiology. V/Q mismatch is the most common cause of hypoxemia and results when there are some alveolar units with low ratios (low ventilation to perfusion) that fail to fully oxygenate perfused blood. When blood is returned to the left heart, the poorly oxygenated blood admixes with blood from normal alveolar units. The resultant hypoxemia is less severe than with shunt and can be corrected with increasing the inspired oxygen concentration. Hypoventilation with or without other causes of hypoxemia is not present in this case, as the PCO2 <40 mmHg indicates hyperventilation. The acidosis present in this case is of a metabolic rather than a pulmonary source. Because the patient is paralyzed, she is unable to increase her respiratory rate above the set rate to compensate for the metabolic acidosis. 
VI-11. The answer is A. (Chap. 307)  This patient is at risk of infection and malignancy. The findings 
on positron emission tomography (PET)/CT are consistent with either diagnosis. Her risk of infection, particularly aspiration pneumonia, is related to her scleroderma-induced esophageal dysfunction, history of low-grade fever, and location. Most aspiration pneumonias involve the right lower lobe, particularly the superior segment. They may appear as consolidation or nodular infiltrates. Given her history of smoking, she is also at risk of primary lung malignancies. Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET can often differentiate benign from malignant lesions as small as 1 cm. However, false-positive results are seen in inflammatory conditions, such as pneumonia or granulomatous diseases. False-negative findings can occur in lesions with low metabolic activity such as carcinoid tumors and bronchioloalveolar cell carcinomas. 
VI-12. The answer is D. (Chap. 307)  This patient presents with a slowly progressive illness manifested 
by dyspnea on exertion, dry cough, clubbing, and the presence of crackles on examination. In addition, the pulmonary function tests demonstrate restrictive lung disease. This scenario is characteristic of an individual with interstitial lung disease, most commonly idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in individuals at this age. A more thorough history should be obtained to determine if there are any other exposures or symptoms that could identify other causes of interstitial lung disease. The next step in the evaluation of this patient is to perform a high- resolution CT scan (HRCT) of the chest. HRCT employs thinner cross-sectional images at approximately 1–2 mm rather than the usual 7–10 mm. This creates more visible details and is particularly useful for recognizing subtle changes of the interstitium and small airways including interstitial lung disease, bronchiolitis, and bronchiectasis. Bronchoscopy with transbronchial biopsy typically does not provide the detail required to adequately diagnose interstitial lung disease. It may be considered if there are specific features on HRCT that would suggest an alternative diagnosis. However, in most instances, the pathologic diagnosis of interstitial lung disease requires a surgical lung biopsy to provide definitive diagnosis. This patient’s symptoms do not suggest coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure. Thus, echocardiography and nuclear stress testing are not indicated. CT scanning has evolved over the years to offer several different techniques that are useful in a variety of circumstances. Standard CT imaging is most useful for the evaluation and staging of lung masses. Helical CT scanning requires only a single breath hold and provides continuous collection of data with improved contrast enhancement and thinner collimation. Once the data are obtained, the images can be reconstructed into other views including sagittal and coronal planes as well as three-dimensional volumetric representations. A recent use of this technology is employed in the setting of virtual bronchoscopy to aid in the planning and performance of bronchoscopy. Multidectector CT scans can obtain multiple slices in a single rotation that are thinner than the usual cuts. Multidetector 
CT scanners are used in the performance of the CT pulmonary angiogram. 
VI-13. The answer is B. (Chap. 309)  Asthma is a heterogeneous disease with interplay between genetic 
and environmental factors ( Table VI-13 ). Several risk factors that predispose to asthma have been identified. These should be distinguished from triggers, which are environmental factors that worsen asthma in a patient with established disease. Atopy is the major risk factor for asthma, and nonatopic individuals have a very low risk of developing asthma. Patients with asthma commonly suffer from other atopic diseases, particularly allergic rhinitis, which may be found in over 80% of asthmatic patients, and atopic dermatitis (eczema). The familial association of asthma and a high degree of concordance for asthma in identical twins indicate a genetic predisposition to the disease; however, whether or not the genes predisposing to asthma are similar or in addition to those predisposing to atopy is not yet clear. It now seems likely that different genes may also contribute to asthma specifically, and there is increasing evidence that the severity of asthma is also genetically determined. Although viral infections (especially rhinovirus) are common triggers of asthma exacerbations, it is uncertain whether they play a role in etiology. There is some association between respiratory syncytial virus infection in infancy and the development of asthma, but the specific pathogenesis is difficult to elucidate because this infection is very common in children. The role of dietary factors is controversial. Observational studies have shown that diets low in antioxidants such as vitamin C and vitamin A, magnesium, selenium, and omega-3 polyunsaturated fats (fish oil) or high in sodium and omega-6 polyunsaturated fats are associated with an increased risk of asthma. Vitamin D deficiency may also predispose to the development of asthma. However, interventional studies with supplementary diets have not supported an important role for these dietary factors. Obesity is also an independent risk factor for asthma, particularly in women, but the mechanisms are thus far unknown. Air pollutants, such as sulfur dioxide, ozone, and diesel particulates, may trigger asthma symptoms, but the role of different air pollutants in the etiology of the disease is much less certain. Most evidence argues against an important role for air pollution because asthma is no more prevalent in cities with a high ambient level of traffic pollution than in rural areas with low levels of pollution. There is some evidence that maternal smoking is a risk factor for asthma, but it is difficult to dissociate this association from an increased risk of respiratory infections. 
TALBLE VI-13    Risk Factors and Triggers Involved in Asthma 
VI-14. The answer is E. (Chap. 309)  The patient in this clinical scenario presents with symptoms 
typical of asthma, including shortness of breath and wheezing. She also manifests evidence of atopy, the most common risk factor for developing asthma, with sensitivity to outdoor allergens and cats. In addition, the patient has a history of allergic rhinitis and eczema, both of which are commonly seen in individuals with asthma. Indeed, over 80% of asthma patients have a concomitant diagnosis of allergic rhinitis. Atopy is present in 40%–50% of the population of affluent countries, but only a small proportion of these individuals develop asthma. Many studies have shown a genetic predisposition via family history and recent genome-wide screens, but no single genetic profile has shown high positive predictive value. Overall, the prevalence of asthma in developed countries has increased over the past 30 years, but recently has leveled off, with a prevalence of about 15% in children and 10%–12% in adults. Asthma deaths remain rare and have decreased in recent decades. In the 1960s, asthma deaths did increase with an overuse of short-acting β-agonist medications. However, since the introduction of inhaled corticosteroids as maintenance therapy, deaths have declined. Risk factors for fatal asthma include frequent use of rescue inhalers, lack of therapy with inhaled corticosteroids, and prior hospitalizations for 
asthma. Interestingly, the overall disease severity does not vary significantly within a given patient over the course of the disease. Individuals who have mild asthma typically continue to have mild asthma, whereas those with severe disease present with severe disease. Diagnosis of asthma can be made by demonstrating airflow obstruction with significant reversibility on bronchodilator administration. In this case, the FEV1/FVC ratio is decreased to 70%, which is low. In addition, the FEV1 increases by 12.4% and 230 mL. This meets the criteria for bronchodilator reversibility of increases of at least 200 mL and 12%. Bronchoprovocation testing with methacholine can be considered in individuals who have suspected asthma but have normal pulmonary function tests. 
VI-15. The answer is B. (Chap. 309)  The pathology of asthma has largely been determined by 
examining bronchial biopsies of patients with asthma as well as the lungs of individuals who die from asthma. These pathologic changes are centered around the airways with sparing of the alveolar spaces. The airways are infiltrated by eosinophils, activated T lymphocytes, and activated mucosal mast cells. However, the degree of inflammation does not correlate with the severity of asthma. Another common finding in all asthmatics and individuals with eosinophilic bronchitis is thickening of the basement membrane due to collagen deposition in the subepithelium. The airway smooth muscle is hypertrophied as well. Overall, this leads to thickening of the airway wall, which may also exhibit edematous fluid, particularly in those with fatal asthma. In cases of fatal asthma, it is also common to find multiple airways that are occluded by mucus plugs. However, the disease is limited to the airways, and infiltration of the alveolar spaces by inflammatory cells is not seen. 
VI-16. The answer is C. (Chap. 309)  The preferred method for diagnosing asthma is demonstration of 
airflow obstruction on spirometry that is at least partially reversible. This is demonstrated in option C, with a decreased FEV1/FVC ratio, decreased FEV1, and a significant increase in FEV1following administration of albuterol. For an individual to be considered responsive to a bronchodilator, the individual should experience an increase in either FEV1 or FVC of at least 200 mL and 12%. Option A describes someone with postviral cough syndrome, which can persist for several weeks following a viral upper respiratory infection. Option B describes someone with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB), which, in absence of other symptoms to suggest asthma, should not be diagnosed as asthma. Isolated EIB lacks the characteristic airway inflammation of asthma and does not progress to asthma. Although it is estimated that 80%–90% of individuals with asthma experience EIB, many individuals who have EIB do not also have asthma. EIB is caused by hyperventilation with inhalation of cool dry air that leads to bronchospasm. Option D describes someone with occupational asthma that has occurred after working with animals in the medical laboratory for many years. Symptoms that are characteristic of occupational asthma are symptoms only while at work that improve on the weekends and during holidays. Option D describes someone with COPD. In COPD, 25%–48% of individuals can demonstrate bronchial hyperresponsive in response to methacholine. 
VI-17. The answer is A. (Chap. 309)  The main drugs for asthma can be divided into bronchodilators, 
which give rapid relief of symptoms mainly through relaxation of airway smooth muscle, and controllers, which inhibit the underlying inflammatory process ( Figure VI-17 ). For patients with mild, intermittent asthma, a short-acting β2-agonist is all that is required. However, use of a reliever medication more than twice a week indicates the need for regular controller therapy. This patient is using her reliever medication frequently; therefore, a controller should be added to her regimen. The treatment of choice for all patients is an inhaled corticosteroid given twice daily. It is usual to start with an intermediate dose (e.g., 200  μ g twice a day of beclomethasone dipropionate or equivalent) and to decrease the dose if symptoms are controlled after 3 months. If symptoms are not controlled, a long-acting β-agonist (LABA) should be added, which is most conveniently given by switching to a combination inhaler. The dose of controller should be adjusted accordingly, as judged by the need for a rescue inhaler. Muscarinic receptor antagonists such as ipratropium bromide prevent cholinergic nerve-induced bronchoconstriction and mucus secretion. They are less effective than β2-agonists in asthma therapy because they inhibit only 
the cholinergic reflex component of bronchoconstriction, whereas β2-agonists prevent all bronchoconstrictor mechanisms. Anticholinergics, including tiotropium, may be used as additional bronchodilators in patients with asthma that is not controlled by inhaled corticosteroid and LABA combinations. Low doses of theophylline or an antileukotriene may also be considered as an add-on therapy, but these are less effective than LABA. If asthma is not controlled despite the maximal recommended dose of inhaled therapy, it is important to check compliance and inhaler technique. In these patients, maintenance treatment with an oral corticosteroid may be needed, and the lowest dose that maintains control should be used. 
FIGURE VI-17  Stepwise approach to asthma therapy according to the severity of asthma and ability to control symptoms. ICS, inhaled corticosteroids; LABA, long-acting β2-agonist; OCS, oral corticosteroid. 
VI-18. The answer is A. (Chap. 309)  Approximately one-third of asthmatic patients who are pregnant 
improve during the course of a pregnancy, one-third deteriorate, and one-third are unchanged. It is important to maintain good control of asthma because poor control may have adverse effects on fetal development. Compliance may be a problem because there is often concern about the effects of antiasthma medications on fetal development. The drugs that have been used for many years in asthma therapy have now been shown to be safe and without teratogenic potential. These drugs include short-acting β-agonists (e.g., albuterol), inhaled corticosteroids (e.g., beclomethasone), and theophylline; there is less safety information about newer classes of drugs such as LABAs (e.g., salmeterol), antileukotrienes, and anti–immunoglobulin (Ig) E. If an oral corticosteroid is needed, it is better to use prednisone rather than prednisolone because it cannot be converted to the active prednisolone by the fetal liver, thus protecting the fetus from systemic effects of the corticosteroid. There is no contraindication to breast-feeding when patients are using these drugs. 
VI-19. The answer is C. (Chap. 310)  Acute eosinophilic pneumonia is an acute respiratory syndrome 
that often presents with a clinical picture that is difficult to differentiate from acute lung injury or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Clinically, patients present with a prodrome of fevers, malaise, myalgias, night sweats, dyspnea, cough, and pleuritic chest pain. Physical examination may demonstrate high fevers, bibasilar rales, and rhonchi. The clinical course is frequently marked by rapid clinical progression to hypoxemic respiratory failure that requires mechanical ventilation. Chest radiography shows bilateral pulmonary infiltrates. This clinical 
picture clearly overlaps with infectious causes of respiratory failure and ARDS. However, the hallmark of acute eosinophilic pneumonia is the finding of >25% eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia most frequently presents in individuals between the ages of 20 and 40 years and is more common in men. There is no epidemiologic link between the diagnosis and a prior history of asthma. However, several case reports have linked development of acute eosinophilic pneumonia to recent initiation of cigarette smoking or exposure to other environmental stimuli including dust. A bronchoalveolar lavage showing eosinophilia >25% is sufficient to establish the diagnosis of acute eosinophilic pneumonia. A surgical lung biopsy is not necessary. If performed, it would demonstrate eosinophilic infiltration with acute and organizing diffuse alveolar damage. Peripheral eosinophilia is not present acutely at disease onset, but often becomes present between day 7 and day 30. Other organ failure is not present. The disease has a high degree of corticosteroid responsiveness and a good prognosis. Initiation of therapy with corticosteroids should not be delayed. Although there is no recommended dose of steroids for therapy, patients are often initiated on therapy with intravenous glucocorticoids with rapid improvement in the hypoxemic respiratory failure. The expected clinical course is complete resolution of clinical and radiographic features of the disease over several weeks without relapse upon tapering of steroids. 
VI-20. The answer is D. (Chap. 310)  Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is an 
eosinophilic pulmonary disorder that occurs in response to allergic sensitization to antigens from Aspergillus  fungi. The classic presentation of an individual with ABPA is someone with an asthmatic phenotype that becomes increasingly difficult to control and may be steroid dependent. These individuals often complain of chronic cough with expectoration of thick brown mucus plugs. In addition, individuals with cystic fibrosis have an increased incidence of ABPA. ABPA can be difficult to diagnose, and many individuals have had prolonged symptoms prior to diagnosis. Initial diagnostic testing should include demonstration of elevated circulating IgE level (option D), typically >1000 IU/mL. Peripheral eosinophilia is also commonly seen. If the IgE level is elevated and suggestive of IgE, one must demonstrate sensitivity to  Aspergillus  antigens. This can be achieved by skin test reactivity, positive serum precipitins for  Aspergillus , and/or direct measurement of circulating specific IgG and IgE to  Aspergillus . Testing for specific IgE in the serum is most frequent accomplished via radioallergosorbent (RAST) testing. Chest CT (option B) may show central bronchiectasis as the classic manifestation of ABPA but is present in only about 30% of individuals. Other findings in ABPA including patchy infiltrates and mucus impaction. Aspirin desensitization (option A) therapy is a treatment for aspirin-sensitive asthma that characteristically presents with the Samter triad of asthma, nasal polyposis, and aspirin and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug sensitivity. Nasal nitric oxide testing (option C) is a diagnostic test used for identification of primary ciliary dyskinesia. Sweat chloride testing (option E) is used for diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. 
VI-21 .  and VI-22.  The answers are B and E, respectively. (Chap. 310)  The patient has a subacute 
presentation of hypersensitivity pneumonitis related to exposure to bird droppings and feathers at work. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction that has a variety of presentations. Some people develop acute onset of shortness of breath, fevers, chills, and dyspnea within 6–8 hours of antigen exposure. Others may present subacutely with worsening dyspnea on exertion and dry cough over weeks to months. Chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis presents with more severe and persistent symptoms with clubbing. Progressive worsening is common with the development of chronic hypoxemia, pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and respiratory failure. The diagnosis relies on a variety of tests. Peripheral eosinophilia is not a feature of this disease as the disease is mediated through T-cell inflammation. Other nonspecific markers of inflammation may be elevated, including the erythrocyte  sedimentation  rate,  C-reactive  protein,  rheumatoid  factor,  and  serum 
immunoglobulins. Neutrophilia and lymphopenia can be seen. If a specific antigen is suspected, serum precipitins directed toward that antigen may be demonstrated. However, these tests are neither sensitive nor specific for the presence of disease. Chest radiography may be normal or show a diffuse reticulonodular infiltrate. Chest HRCT is the imaging modality of choice and shows ground-glass infiltrates in the lower lobes. Centrilobular infiltrates are often seen as well. 
In the chronic stages, patchy emphysema is the most common finding. Histopathologically, interstitial alveolar infiltrates predominate, with a variety of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and occasionally eosinophils and neutrophils seen. Loose, noncaseating granulomas are typical. Treatment requires removing the individual from exposure to the antigen. If this is not possible, the patient should wear a mask that prevents small-particle inhalation during exposure. In patients with mild disease, removal from antigen exposure alone may be sufficient to treat the disease. More severe symptoms require therapy with glucocorticoids at an equivalent prednisone dose of 1 mg/kg daily for 7 to 14 days. The steroids are then gradually tapered over 2 to 6 weeks. 
VI-23. The answer is C. (Chap. 311)  Mesothelioma is a rare malignancy of the pleura and peritoneum, 
with almost all cases associated with asbestos exposure. It is notable that the exposure to asbestos could seem almost minimal but still confer significant risk. Exposures of less than 1–2 years or that have occurred more than 40 years in the past have been demonstrated to confer increased risk of mesothelioma. Although tobacco smoking in association with asbestos exposure increases the risk of lung cancer several-fold, there is no additive or exponential risk of mesothelioma in those who smoke. Mesothelioma most often presents with a persistent unilateral pleural effusion that may mask the underlying pleural tumor. However, the pleura may be diffusely thickened. Typically, large pleural effusions would cause expansion of the hemithorax with mediastinal shift away from the side of the pleural effusion. However, even with large effusions, no mediastinal shift is seen on chest radiograph because the pleural thickening associated with the disease leads to a fixed chest cavity size and thoracic restriction. The most difficult diagnostic dilemma in these patients is to differentiate mesothelioma from metastatic lung carcinoma (usually adenocarcinoma) as many patients are at risk for both tumors, and lung cancer is by far the most common malignancy seen in individuals with asbestos exposure and cigarette smoking. Pleural fluid cytology is not adequate for the diagnosis of most individuals with mesothelioma, with samples being positive for the disease in less than 50% of individuals. Most often, video-assisted thoracoscopy is required to directly visualize the pleural and direct biopsy sampling. Unfortunately, there is no proven effective therapy for mesothelioma, and most patients die from local extension of the disease. 
VI-24. The answer is E. (Chap. 311)  Silicosis results from the inhalation of free silica (or crystalline 
quartz) and is associated with mining, stonecutting, foundry work, and quarrying. The chronic form of silicosis has been associated with an increased risk of a variety of diseases. Silica is known to be cytotoxic to alveolar macrophages and, thus, places patients at increased risk of pulmonary infections that rely on cellular immunity, including  Mycobacterium tuberculosis , atypical mycobacteria, and fungus. In addition, silicosis is associated with the development of connective tissue disorders including rheumatoid arthritis with rheumatoid nodules (Caplan syndrome) and scleroderma. Finally, silica is listed as a probable lung carcinogen. 
VI-25. The answer is D. (Chap. 311)  Occupational lung diseases have been associated with a wide 
variety of organic and inorganic exposures in the workplace and clinically can range from primarily an airway disease to progressive pulmonary fibrosis. When evaluating a patient for a new pulmonary diagnosis, it is important to perform a detailed occupational history to determine if there is a possibility that the patient’s profession may be causing or perpetuating the disease process. Specific clinical syndromes are associated with well-defined clinical exposures. The inorganic dusts include asbestos, silica, coal dust, beryllium, and a variety of other metals. Asbestos and silica are among the most common exposures. Asbestos exposure is associated with mining, construction, and ship repair. In areas near where asbestos mining has occurred, the general population also has shown an increased risk of asbestos-related lung disease. Clinically, asbestos exposure is associated with a range of clinical syndromes including asbestosis (interstitial lung disease), benign pleural plaques and pleural effusions, lung cancer, and mesothelioma. Silica exposure is common among miners, stone masons, and individuals involved in sand blasting or quarrying. A variety of clinical syndrome can occur with silica exposure, the most severe being progressive massive fibrosis with mass-like upper lobe consolidating nodules (>1 cm). Coal mining is also associated with a clinical picture similar to silicosis and progressive 
massive fibrosis. Beryllium is a lightweight metal that is highly conductive and is used in high- tech industries. The classic disease associated with beryllium exposure is a chronic granulomatous disease similar in clinical appearance to sarcoidosis. Other metals can produce any number of clinical syndromes. Welders of galvanized metal who use zinc oxide are susceptible to metal fume fever and present with an acute self-limited influenza-like illness.     Organic dusts that can lead to occupational lung disease include cotton dust, grain dust, toxic chemicals, and other agricultural dusts, among many others. Cotton milling and processing can present with a clinical syndrome known as byssinosis, which has asthma-like features. Many of the organic dust exposures also lead to hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Examples of hypersensitivity pneumonitis syndromes related to occupational exposures include farmer’s lung, pigeon breeder’s lung, and malt worker’s lung. Typically, a specific antigen can be identified as the culprit for the development of hypersensitivity pneumonitis. In farmer’s lung, the most common cause is thermophilic  Actinomyces  species found in moldy hay. 
VI-26. The answer is D. (Chap. 311)  The patient presents with acute-onset pulmonary symptoms, 
including wheezing, with no other medical problems. He is a farmer and was recently handling hay. The clinical presentation and radiogram are consistent with farmer’s lung, a hypersensitivity pneumonitis caused by  Actinomyces . In this disorder, moldy hay with spores of actinomycetes are inhaled and produce a hypersensitivity pneumonitis. The disorder is seen most commonly in rainy periods, when the spores multiply. Patients present generally 4–8 hours after exposure with fever, cough, and shortness of breath without wheezing. Chest radiograms often show patchy bilateral, often upper lobe infiltrates. The exposure history will differentiate this disorder from other types of pneumonia. 
VI-27. The answer is D. (Chap. 311)  Firefighters and fire victims are at risk of smoke inhalation 
injury, an important cause of acute cardiorespiratory failure. In addition to the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning, these individuals are also at risk from toxic inhalational injury from fumes released from the burning of synthetic materials. This patient has a carbon monoxide level that requires treatment with 100% oxygen but would not be expected to lead to significant cardiorespiratory collapse. Recently, cyanide toxicity has been recognized as a significant cause of morbidity and mortality following industrial and house fires. Cyanide toxicity can present with rapid development of neurologic and cardiorespiratory collapse. The neurologic symptoms can range from mild headache to confusion, generalized seizures, and coma. Hypotension with significant lactic acidosis is prominent. Often an elevated lactate level leads to the suspicion of concomitant cyanide toxicity in an individual with smoke inhalation injury. However to definitely make the diagnosis, one would want to assess the red blood cell cyanide concentration. 
VI-28. The answer is D. (Chap. 312)  Bronchiectasis is a common disorder that refers to an irreversible 
dilation of the airways that affects the lung in a focal or diffuse pattern. Historically, bronchiectasis has been characterized pathologically as cylindrical, varicose, or cystic in nature. There are numerous causes of bronchiectasis including infectious, inherited, immunologic, and idiopathic causes. The most common cause of bronchiectasis worldwide is postinfectious following tuberculosis infection. However, in developed countries, other causes are more common. The most common cause in developed countries is cystic fibrosis (CF); CF patients develop clinically significant bronchiectasis in late adolescence or early adulthood. Most children with CF are diagnosed currently through newborn screening programs, which were introduced in all states within the past decade. However, adults may continue to present with milder forms of the disease, so clinicians should continue to have a high degree of clinical suspicion for CF when an individual presents with a new diagnosis of bronchiectasis. Epidemiologically, individuals presenting with CF bronchiectasis will typically be younger than individuals with non-CF bronchiectasis. In contrast, non-CF bronchiectasis more commonly affects nonsmoking women older than 50 years. The clinical presentation of bronchiectasis is a daily cough productive of thick tenacious sputum. Physical examination demonstrates both crackles and wheezing on examination. In CF, the disease findings are more predominant in the upper lobes, whereas in certain other causes (chronic aspiration, immunoglobulin deficiency), there is a lower lobe predominance. Clubbing is variably present and generally only seen in more advance disease. 
The diagnosis of bronchiectasis is determined by the presence of the disease on a chest CT imaging. Chest radiography is not sensitive for the diagnosis of bronchiectasis, particularly early in the disease process. It may show “tram tracks” indicating dilated airway. Chest HRCT is the diagnostic modality of choice for confirming diagnosis. Findings include demonstration of dilated, nontapering airways that may be filled with mucus. In addition, signet-ring signs may also be seen where the airway is greater than 1.5 times the size of the adjacent blood vessel. Other findings include bronchial wall thickening, inspissated secretion with a “tree-in-bud” pattern, and cysts emanating from the bronchial wall. Once bronchiectasis has been confirmed on CT imaging, other tests may be indicated in this patient to determine the etiology of the bronchiectasis. Testing should be guided by the history and physical examination and may include sputum culture for mycobacteria and fungal organisms, immunoglobulin levels, autoimmune panel, sweat chloride testing, nasal nitric oxide testing (for primary ciliary dyskinesia), bronchoscopy, and/or tests of swallow function. Despite thorough evaluation, in as many as 25%–50% of individuals referred for workup of bronchiectasis, no specific cause is ever identified. 
VI-29. The answer is C. (Chap. 312)  Treatment of infectious bronchiectasis relies upon controlling the 
source of infection and maintaining good bronchial hygiene and airway clearance. The most common nontuberculous mycobacterial organism causing infection in individuals with bronchiectasis is  Mycobacterium avium-intracellculare  (MAI or MAC). The recommended treatment for MAI is a macrolide combined with ethambutol and rifampin. The recommended course of therapy is 12 months after the last positive culture. In certain instances, surgical resection can be considered for focal bronchiectasis if a patient is failing to clear the infection after a prolonged course of antibiotic therapy. However, this patient has had negative cultures for 12 months, demonstrating an appropriate response to antimicrobial therapy. Thus, options A and B are incorrect. However, the patient continues to have daily sputum expectoration related to her underlying bronchiectasis and should be instructed on appropriate bronchial hygiene and airway clearance. A variety of approaches have been used, and no one treatment has been demonstrated to be superior. Chest physiotherapy is often recommended on a daily basis to improve secretion clearance. This can be accomplished through postural drainage often combined with traditional mechanical percussion or the use of devices including high-frequency chest wall oscillation vest or oscillatory positive expiratory pressure flutter valve (option C). Regular exercise may also improve airway clearance. Mucolytic agents such as hypertonic saline are also often used. However, in contrast with CF bronchiectasis, dornase (DNase) (option D) is not used for non-CF bronchiectasis. A randomized, placebo-controlled research trial demonstrated lack of efficacy and potential harm in the non-CF population. Finally, there is no proven role for the use of daily oral corticosteroids (option E) in the absence of a disease known to respond to steroid therapy, such as allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis or autoimmune disease such as Sjögren syndrome. 
VI-30 and VI-31.  The answers are B and B, respectively. (Chap. 313)  Cystic fibrosis is one of the 
most common life-shortening autosomal recessive disorders, affecting about 1 in 3300 live births in Caucasians. It is much less common in African Americans (~1 in 15,000) and Asians (~1 in 33,000). The disease is caused by an inherited defect in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) protein, a large ion channel in the cell membrane responsible for chloride ion transport. In the absence of a functional CFTR protein, individuals with CF have a variety of disease manifestations related to impaired exocrine function. The primary disease manifestations are respiratory and pancreatic in nature with chronic sinopulmonary infections, impaired exocrine pancreatic function, and poor nutrition. The gene that encodes CFTR is located on chromosome 7, and more than 2000 mutations have been described. In understanding the genetics, it is best to categorize them according to the effect on CFTR function. Class I mutations (G542X, 621+1G>T) lead to absence of synthesis, most frequently through the presence of an abnormal stop codon. Class II mutations (F508del, the most common mutation) cause defective protein synthesis and premature degradation. Class III mutations (G551D) are gating mutations, in which the CFTR protein is present at the cell membrane but fails to function properly. Type IV mutations (R117H, R117C) are conductance mutations with impaired conductance through the 
ion channel pore, and Type V mutations are splice mutations that lead to a diminished number of CFTR transcripts being produced due to a promoter or splicing abnormality. One of the most exciting breakthroughs in the treatment of CF has been in the area of CFTR modulations. High- throughput screening identified small-molecule compounds that act as potentiators or correctors of CFTR and improve CFTR function. The first of these compounds to be identified was ivacaftor. This drug works as a potentiator and has been approved for individuals with gating mutations, the most common of which is G551D. Approximately 5% of the CF population has a gating mutation. In clinical trials, individuals with a G551D mutation treated with ivacaftor experienced an absolute improvement in lung function (FEV1 percent predicted) of 10.6% and a decline in sweat chloride values to normal levels. This was sustained over the 24 weeks of the clinical trial. Long-term data are now available that demonstrates persistent effects of ivacaftor up to 144 weeks (McKone EF et al:  Lancet Respir Med  2014;2(11):902–910). Individuals on ivacaftor also experience an improvement in nutritional status and growth in younger individuals as well. Ivacaftor is now being combined with corrector compounds such as lumacaftor to attempt to correct the F508del processing abnormality. The combination of ivacaftor and lumacaftor was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in July 2015 for individuals homozygous for F508del. Other potentiator/corrector combinations are undergoing clinical trials. 
VI-32. The answer is E. (Chap. 313 and J Pediatr 2008;153(2):S4–S14)  CF is a common autosomal 
recessive disorder that affects 1 out of every 3300 live births in the Caucasian population of North America and Europe. There have been more than 2000 mutations identified in the gene for the CFTR protein—the abnormal protein identified in CF. This protein is a large transmembrane protein involved in the transport of chloride and other ions, and abnormalities of the CFTR lead to abnormalities of salt and water transport. The primary clinical manifestations of CF are due to the effects of the mutated CFTR in the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas. In the lungs, abnormal CFTR leads to thick, sticky mucus with abnormal mucociliary clearance. A patient will have recurrent respiratory infections with development of cystic bronchiectasis over time. The presenting manifestation in infancy is often meconium ileus and can lead to constipation and distal intestinal obstruction in adults. Failure of the CFTR in the pancreas prevents appropriate release of pancreatic enzymes to allow for proper digestion of food, especially fatty foods, with resultant malnutrition and steatorrhea. While most patients with CF present in infancy or childhood, about 5% of all individuals with CF will not be diagnosed until adulthood. Presenting symptoms in adulthood can be myriad and often result from minor mutations of the  CFTR  gene. These symptoms can include recurrent lung and sinus infections, malnutrition, sinus disease, and infertility, especially absence of the vas deferens in men. The standard test for the diagnosis of CF is the sweat chloride test. Elevated values are pathognomonic for CF, with a cutoff of >60 mmol/L in adults being diagnostic. Values greater than 40 mmol/L fall within the indeterminate range. Given the large number of mutations that can cause CF, genetic testing can be expensive and is not the first test performed when CF is suspected. A screening CF genetic panel often only identifies between approximately 20 and 80 of the common CF mutations. If only one mutation is identified, then this may represent the carrier state, or it could represent CF with a more rare mutation requiring more detailed genetic analysis, including full gene sequencing. In such cases, referral to a tertiary CF care center is helpful for data interpretation. In some instances, nasal potential difference testing can be helpful because CF patients demonstrate an elevated baseline nasal potential difference with failure to respond to stimulation with β-agonists. Presence of  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  is common in adults with CF but is not specific for the diagnosis of the disease because bronchiectasis from any cause can lead to  P aeruginosa  colonization. 
VI-33. The answer is C. (Chap. 313 and Ann Am Thorac Soc 2014;11(10):1640–1650)  Individuals with 
CF experience recurrent pulmonary and sinus infections. In childhood, the most commonly isolated organisms are  Haemophilus influenzae  and  Staphylococcus aureus . However, over time, most adults demonstrate  P aeruginosa . It is now recognized that chronic colonization with Pseudomonas , especially multidrug-resistant organisms, is associated with a more rapid decline in lung function. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation recommends quarterly office visits with a 
physician with assessment of respiratory cultures at each visit. When  Pseudomonas  is initially detected, attempts to eradicate the organism should be undertaken. The recommended regimen for eradication is an inhaled antibiotic with the aminoglycoside antibiotic tobramycin as the preferred agent. This will be continued every other month until the next office visit to determine if therapy should be continued. For all patients chronically colonized with  Pseudomonas , inhaled tobramycin every other month should be continued on an indefinite basis. In addition, azithromycin 500 mg three times weekly or 250 mg daily is also used. Whether azithromycin primarily exerts its beneficial effect through anti-inflammatory or antimicrobial actions is not definitively known at the present time. Because the patient is clinically well without any symptoms of acute exacerbation, the use of intravenous antibiotics is not required. Chest wall oscillation and hypertonic saline are both mechanisms to improve airway clearance. While the patient may need to improve airway clearance in the future, the most important component of his care at present is to eradicate new growth of  Pseudomonas . His current exercise regimen and autogenic drainage provide a component of airway clearance in his maintenance care plan. 
VI-34. The answer is D. (Chap. 314)  Acute exacerbations of COPD are a frequent cause of morbidity 
and mortality in COPD, contributing to >70% of healthcare expenditures for COPD. Risk factors for development of acute exacerbation include severity of airflow obstruction (FEV1 <50% predicted), history of prior exacerbations, and elevated ratio of pulmonary artery to aorta on chest CT. Acute exacerbations of COPD cost over $10 billion to the healthcare system in the United States annually. Thus, determining the causes of exacerbations and prevention of future exacerbations have been important targets in the care of COPD patients. Most acute exacerbations are associated with airway inflammation or infection, including acquiring a new strain of bacteria or a viral respiratory infection. Therefore, strategies for prevention have been primarily focused on decreasing inflammatory responses and preventing infections. The selective phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor roflumilast has been demonstrated to decrease exacerbation frequency in individuals with COPD who have symptoms of chronic bronchitis and frequent exacerbations. However, it has limited effects of pulmonary function and chronic respiratory symptoms. The macrolide antibiotic azithromycin has both anti-inflammatory and antibiotic properties. In a randomized controlled trial, it has been shown to decrease exacerbation frequency and increase time to first exacerbation when administered at a dose of 500 mg daily, not 250 mg three times weekly. Other interventions that also decrease exacerbation frequency include use of inhaled glucocorticoids in individuals with frequent exacerbations or asthmatic symptoms and influenza vaccination. Long-acting anticholinergic medications and long-acting β- agonists decrease exacerbations as well. Oxygen therapy and nocturnal ventilation are not indicated for prevention of exacerbations. Theophylline yields modest improvements in lung function but has no proven effect on exacerbations. 
VI-35. The answer is D. (Chap. 314)  COPD affects more than 10 million Americans and is currently 
the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. Worldwide, COPD is also increasing as cigarette smoking, the primary risk factor for the development of COPD, is increasing in prevalence throughout the world. While cigarette smoking is clearly identified as a risk factor for COPD, other factors have also been identified to contribute to the risk of COPD. In many developing countries, the prevalence of smoking among women remains low. However, the incidence of COPD is increasing in women as well as men. In many developing countries, this increased incidence of COPD in women is attributable to the use of biomass fuels in poorly ventilated areas for heat and cooking. In addition, passive cigarette smoke exposure may also contribute. Occupational exposures also lead to an increased risk of COPD. Although some exposures such as cotton textile dust and gold mining have not been definitively associated with COPD, coal dust exposure is a risk factor for emphysema in both smokers and nonsmokers. Inherent properties of the airways also affect the risk of COPD. Airway hyperresponsiveness increases the risk of lung function decline and is a risk factor for COPD. Although there is much interest in the role of chronic or recurrent infections as a risk factor for COPD, there has been no proven link. 
VI-36. The answer is B. (Chap. 314)  COPD is a disease process encompassing the clinical entities of 
emphysema and chronic bronchitis. COPD is defined pathophysiologically by the presence of irreversible airflow obstruction with hyperinflation and impaired gas exchange. The airflow obstruction occurs for several reasons including decreased elastic recoil of the lungs, increased airway inflammation, and increased closure of small airways due to loss of tethering in emphysematous lungs. This leads to early closure of airways in expiration with air trapping and hyperinflation. Finally, the loss of alveoli in emphysematous lungs leads to a progressive decline in gas exchange with alterations of ventilation-perfusion relationships. On pulmonary function testing, these pathophysiologic changes result in a typical pattern with the primary characteristic of COPD being a decrease in the FEV1/FVC ratio and FEV1. The severity of airflow obstruction is graded by the degree of decline in the percent predicted FEV1. The FVC may or may not be decreased. With hyperinflation, the TLC increases with a concomitant increase in RV. Finally, the DLCO is also characteristically decreased in most cases of COPD. Some patients with pure chronic bronchitis without any emphysematous component may have a preserved DLCO, although this is a rare presentation for COPD. This same pattern of pulmonary function testing can be seen in asthma with the exception of the DLCO, which is typically normal asthma. A decrease in TLC is characteristic in restrictive ventilator disorders, such as pulmonary fibrosis, but not in obstructive disorders such as COPD. 
VI-37. The answer is D. (Chap. 314)  This patient has a known diagnosis of COPD, with worsening 
symptoms and pulmonary function testing consistent with a moderate degree of disease. By the Global Initiative for Lung Disease (GOLD) criteria, the patient would have stage II disease. He is currently undermanaged with a short-acting β-agonist only in the setting of limiting symptoms. Unfortunately, there is no medical therapy that alters mortality or definitively decreases rate of decline in lung function in COPD with the exception of smoking cessation, oxygen for chronic hypoxemia, and lung volume reduction surgery in a small subset of highly selected patients. Therefore, the goal of therapy in COPD is to improve symptoms and quality of life. The best initial medication for this patient would be to add a long-acting bronchodilator in the form of the antimuscarinic agent tiotropium. In large randomized controlled trials, tiotropium has been demonstrated to improve symptoms and decrease exacerbations in COPD. Ipratropium, a short- acting anticholinergic medication, also improves symptoms but has not been similarly shown to decrease exacerbation rate. Combinations of long-acting β-agonists and inhaled glucocorticoids have also been shown to decrease exacerbations and improve quality of life in COPD. The largest trial of these medications to date has demonstrated a trend toward improved mortality. Currently, the recommendation for initiation of long-acting β-agonist and inhaled glucocorticoid combinations is to consider starting the medication if the patient has two or more exacerbations yearly or demonstrates significant acute bronchodilator reactivity on pulmonary function testing. At one time, physicians considered prescribing long-term oral glucocorticoids if a patient demonstrated significant improvement in lung function in response to a trial of oral steroids. However, long-term treatment with steroids has an unfavorable risk-benefit ratio including weight gain, osteoporosis, and increased risk of infection, especially pneumonia. Oxygen therapy improves outcomes in individuals who are hypoxemic at rest or have borderline hypoxemia with evidence of end-organ damage (e.g., pulmonary hypertension, polycythemia). Although oxygen may be prescribed for individuals with isolated exercise or nocturnal hypoxemia, research to date has not demonstrated any change in outcomes with oxygen in these settings. 
VI-38. The answer is E. (Chap. 314)  Acute exacerbations of COPD are marked by an increase in 
dyspnea, an increase in sputum, and a change in sputum color. Acute exacerbations of COPD account for more than $10 billion in healthcare expenditures annually in the United States, with significant morbidity and mortality associated with these exacerbations. Prompt treatment can improve symptoms and decrease hospitalizations and mortality in this setting. In patients presenting with hypercarbic respiratory failure in the setting of an acute exacerbation, the treatment that has demonstrated the strongest reduction in mortality, when compared to traditional mechanical ventilation, is noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV). NIPPV also decreases the need for endotracheal intubation, complications, and length of stay in the hospital. Antibiotics, bronchodilators, and glucocorticoids are all cornerstones of therapy in the treatment of acute exacerbations in COPD but have not been demonstrated in clinical trials to 
have similar mortality benefits in the situation of acute hypercarbic respiratory failure. Specifically, no benefit is demonstrated for intravenous versus oral corticosteroids. Likewise, the choice of antibiotic should be made based on local susceptibility patterns, and need for broad- spectrum antibiotics that cover for  Pseudomonas  is not typically indicated. Recent studies have demonstrated that high-flow nasal oxygen may be an effective alternative to NIPPV, with improved outcomes (need for mechanical ventilation) and improved patient comfort. 
VI-39. The answer is C. (Chap. 314)  The only therapies that have been proven to improve survival in 
patients with COPD are smoking cessation, oxygen in patients with resting hypoxemia, and lung volume reduction surgery in a very small subset of highly selected patients. This patient probably has resting hypoxemia resulting from the presence of an elevated jugular venous pulse, pedal edema, and elevated hematocrit. Theophylline has been shown to increase exercise tolerance in patients with COPD through a mechanism other than bronchodilation. Oral glucocorticoids are not indicated in the absence of an acute exacerbation and may lead to complications if they are used indiscriminately. Atenolol and enalapril have no specific role in therapy for COPD but are often used when there is concomitant hypertension or cardiovascular disease. 
VI-40 and VI-41. The answers are E and C, respectively. (Chap. 315 and Am J Respir Crit Care Med 
2015;192(2):238–248)  Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common cause of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. The disease typically presents with progressive dyspnea on exertion and dry cough in an older individual. IPF is rare in individuals younger than age 50 years. On physical examination, inspiratory crackles and clubbing are common. Pulmonary function tests demonstrate restrictive ventilatory defect (low TLC, low RV, low VC) with a low DLCO. As in the chest HRCT shown, there is typically interstitial fibrosis that is worse in the bases and begins in the subpleural areas, often associated with traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing. Atypical findings that should cause one to consider an alternative diagnosis include the presence of ground-glass infiltrates, nodular opacities, an upper lobe predominance of disease, and prominent hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Bronchoscopic biopsy is insufficient for histologic confirmation, and a surgical lung biopsy is required for definitive diagnosis. The histologic hallmark of IPF is usual interstitial pneumonia, but can also occur in rheumatologic diseases or due to secondary exposures. In these cases, the prognosis is better than when the diagnosis is IPF. If no other secondary cause is identified, the diagnosis of IPF is given. The natural history of IPF is one of continued progression of disease and a high mortality rate. Acute exacerbations also occur with a rapid progression of symptoms associated with a pattern of diffuse ground-glass opacities on CT. These are associated with a high mortality. Until recently, no treatment had been demonstrated to slow progression of disease. Recently, two therapies have been approved by the FDA for treatment of IPF—nintedanib and pirfenidone ( Am J Respir Crit Care Med  2015;192(2):238–248). Nintedanib is an intracellular tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits several growth factors including vascular endothelial growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and platelet-derived growth factor. A recent trial demonstrated that use of this medication slowed the rate of decline in FVC and could potentially decrease mortality. Pirfenidone is an oral antifibrotic medication that has been demonstrated to decrease fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis. It too has also been shown to decrease decline in FVC and potentially decrease mortality. Therapies that have been shown to not benefit in IPF include glucocorticoids, immunosuppressant agents, and  N -acetylcysteine. Referral for lung CT should be considered in all patients with a diagnosis of IPF due to the unpredictability of the diagnosis. 
VI-42. The answer is C. (Chap. 315)  In many cases of interstitial lung disease, bronchoscopy can offer 
some clues to the cause of the disease. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage is a pathologic process that can occur in many diseases including vasculitis, Goodpasture syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, crack cocaine use, mitral stenosis, and idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis, among many others. On bronchoscopy, one would expect to see a progressively greater blood return on sequential aliquots of lavage fluid. Microscopic examination would show hemosiderin- laden macrophages and red blood cells. Atypical hyperplastic type II pneumocytes are seen in diffuse alveolar damage or cases of drug toxicity. Ferruginous bodies and dust particles are found 
in asbestos-related pulmonary disease. Lymphocytosis is common in hypersensitivity pneumonitis and sarcoidosis. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis has a low CD4:CD8 ratio, whereas sarcoidosis has an elevated CD4:CD8 ratio. The bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in pulmonary alveolar proteinosis has a milky appearance with foamy macrophages. 
VI-43 and VI-44. The answers are E and E, respectively. (Chap. 315)  Pulmonary alveolar 
proteinosis is a rare disorder that usually presents between ages 30 and 50 years. It is slightly more common in men. Three distinct subtypes have been described: congenital, acquired, and secondary (most frequently caused by acute silicosis or hematologic malignancies). Interestingly, the pathogenesis of the disease has been associated with antibodies to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in most cases of acquired disease in adults. The pathobiology of the disease is failure of clearance of pulmonary surfactant. These patients typically present with subacute dyspnea on exertion with fatigue and low-grade fevers. Associated laboratory abnormalities  include  polycythemia,  hypergammaglobulinemia,  and  increased  lactate 
dehydrogenase levels. Elevated serum levels of lung surfactant proteins A and D have been described, and autoantibodies to GM-CSF can be found in both the serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Classically, the CT appearance is described as “crazy pavement” with ground-glass alveolar infiltrates in a perihilar distribution and intervening areas of normal lung. Bronchoalveolar lavage is diagnostic, with large amounts of amorphous proteinaceous material seen. Macrophages filled with periodic acid-Schiff–positive material are also frequently seen. The treatment of choice is whole-lung lavage through a double-lumen endotracheal tube. Survival at 5 years is higher than 95%, although some patients will need a repeat whole-lung lavage. Treatment of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis with GM-CSF remains experimental. 
VI-45. The answer is D. (Chap. 315)  This patient is presenting with subacute pulmonary symptoms, 
intermittent fevers, myalgias, and malaise. The biopsy shows a pattern of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP). COP (formerly bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia) usually presents in the fifth or sixth decades with a flulike illness. Symptoms include fevers, malaise, weight loss, cough, and dyspnea. Inspiratory crackles are common, and late inspiratory squeaks may also be heard. Pulmonary function testing reveals restrictive lung disease. The typical pattern on chest HRCT is patchy areas of airspace consolidation, nodular opacities, and ground- glass opacities that occur more frequently in the lower lung zones. Pathology shows the presence of granulation tissue plugging airways, alveolar ducts, and alveoli. There is frequently chronic inflammation in the alveolar interstitium. Treatment with high-dose steroids is effective in two- thirds of individuals, with most individuals being able to be tapered to lower doses over the first year. Azathioprine is an immunosuppressive therapy that is commonly used in interstitial lung disease due to usual interstitial pneumonitis. While it may be considered in COP unresponsive to glucocorticoids, it would not be a first-line agent used without concomitant steroid therapy. Because most patients with COP respond to corticosteroids, referral for lung transplantation is not required unless there is a failure to respond to therapy. Nintedanib and pirfenidone are treatments for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 
VI-46. The answer is C. (Chap. 316)  Empyema refers to the presence of a grossly purulent pleural 
effusion, which is present in this clinical scenario. The management of an empyema requires placement of a chest tube for drainage, and a recent randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial demonstrated improved outcomes with use of both alteplase (tissue plasminogen activator) and deoxyribonuclease (DNase) twice daily for 3 days beginning within the first day after chest tube placement. The trial was conducted using a factorial design comparing the combination therapy to placebo and to either therapy alone. The combination of alteplase and DNase showed improved resolution of pleural fluid, shorter duration of hospital stay, and lesser need for surgical intervention when compared to placebo or either therapy alone (Rahman NM et al:  N Engl J Med  2011;365:518–526). 
VI-47. The answer is C. (Chap. 316)  Tension pneumothorax is a life-threatening complication that 
must be rapidly recognized and alleviated. If undetected, it will rapidly progress to cardiovascular collapse and death. Tension pneumothorax most commonly occurs during 
mechanical ventilation and during resuscitative efforts. An initial sign during mechanical ventilation is high peak inspiratory pressures or difficulty with ventilation. Hypotension and hypoxemia are signs of impending cardiovascular collapse and are caused by decreased venous return to the heart and reduced cardiac output. The physical examination may show absence of breath sounds on the affected side with enlargement of the hemithorax, hyperresonance to percussion, and mediastinal shift to the contralateral side. A chest radiograph would be confirmatory, but in an acute setting, there may not be time to obtain the testing. If clinical suspicion is high, treatment should not be delayed as tension pneumothorax is a medical emergency and the patient is likely to die if the tension is not relieved. A large-bore needle should be placed into the pleural space through the second anterior intercostal space. If a large amount of air escapes after the needle is inserted, the diagnosis is confirmed. The needle should remain in place until definitive treatment with a tube thoracostomy can be performed. 
VI-48. The answer is E. (Chap. 316)  Parapneumonic effusions are one of the most common causes of 
the exudative pleural effusion. When an effusion is identified in association with pneumonia, it is prudent to perform a thoracentesis if the fluid can be safely accessed. One way to know whether there is enough fluid for thoracentesis is to perform a lateral decubitus film and observe if there is free-flowing fluid at a volume of >10 mm from the chest wall. However, if the fluid does not layer, this may indicate a complex loculated fluid. A loculated effusion often indicates an infected effusion and may require chest tube drainage or surgical intervention. Other factors that are associated with the need for more invasive procedures include pleural fluid pH <7.20, pleural fluid glucose <60 mg/dL (<3.3 mmol/L), positive Gram stain or culture of the pleural fluid, and presence of gross pus in the pleural space (empyema). Fluid recurrence following initial thoracentesis does indicate a complicated pleural effusion, but a repeat thoracentesis should be performed to ensure no concerning features have developed. 
VI-49. The answer is A. (Chap. 316)  The characteristics of the pleural fluid in this patient are 
consistent with an exudate by Light’s criteria. These criteria are as follows: pleural fluid protein/serum protein ratio >0.5, pleural fluid lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)/serum LDH ratio >0.6, and pleural fluid LDH more than two-thirds of the upper limit of normal serum values. If one of the criteria is met, then the effusion would be classified as an exudate. This patient clearly meets the criteria for an exudate. Exudative pleural effusions occur when there are alterations in the local environment that change the formation and absorption of pleural fluid. The most common causes of exudative pleural effusion are infection and malignancy. Other less common causes include pulmonary embolism, chylothorax, autoimmune diseases, asbestos exposure, drug reactions, hemothorax, and following cardiac surgery or other cardiac injury, among others. Unfortunately, 25% of transudative effusions can be incorrectly identified as exudates by these criteria. Most often, this occurs when the effusion has an increased number of cells to cause an elevation in the LDH or has been treated with diuretics to cause an increase in pleural fluid protein. Transudative effusions are most often caused by heart failure, but can also be seen in cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, and myxedema. 
VI-50. The answer is B. (Chap. 316)  A primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs in the absence of 
trauma to the thorax. Most individuals who present with a primary spontaneous pneumothorax are young, and primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs almost exclusively in cigarette smokers, the primary risk factor. Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is also more common in men and has been associated with a tall, thin body habitus. The primary cause is the rupture of small apical pleural blebs or cysts, and the CT scan of the chest is often normal. About half of individuals will experience more than one primary spontaneous pneumothorax. The initial treatment is simple needle aspiration, which is most commonly done with ultrasound or CT guidance. Oxygen is given simultaneously to speed resorption of the residual air in the pleural space. If conservative treatment fails, tube thoracostomy can be performed. Pneumothoraces that fail to resolve or are recurrent often require thoracoscopy with stapling of blebs and pleural abrasion, a treatment that is effective in almost 100% of cases. 
VI-51. The answer is B. (Chap. 317)  Chronic fibrosing mediastinitis most commonly occurs after 
granulomatous inflammation in the lymph nodes in the mediastinum that leads to an exuberant calcification response. Over time, the inflammation can cause significant disruption to the vital structures that course through the mediastinum and lead to the clinical symptoms of fibrosing mediastinitis. The most common causes of fibrosing mediastinitis are histoplasmosis and tuberculosis. Other causes include sarcoidosis, silicosis, or other fungal diseases. Symptoms are related to compression of mediastinal structures including the superior vena cava, pulmonary arteries or veins, or large airway compression. The phrenic or recurrent laryngeal nerves may also become paralyzed. The most common symptom is dyspnea on exertion. Patients may also develop chronic cough with lithoptysis or hemoptysis due to erosion of the calcific lymph nodes into airways. Patients may describe lithoptysis as gritty or sandy sputum. Hemoptysis can be large volume and may necessitate surgical intervention for control. However, other than antituberculous therapy for tuberculous mediastinitis, no medical or surgical therapy has any effectiveness on the treatment of fibrosing mediastinitis. This patient most likely has histoplasmosis as the cause of her disease because histoplasmosis is endemic in Indiana. Because the fibrosing mediastinitis is a sequela of an old infection, the urine  Histoplasma  antigen test would not yield a positive result. 
VI-52. The answer is E. (Chap. 318)  Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a disorder of chronic 
hypoventilation that has an unknown prevalence as no large population studies have been conducted. However, the prevalence is expected to increase as the prevalence of obesity is rising 
worldwide. OHS requires a body mass index >30 kg/m2 and the presence of chronic alveolar hypoventilation for diagnosis, with a daytime awake PaCO2 ≥45 mmHg. In more than 90% of cases, concomitant obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is also present. The pathogenesis of OHS is not fully understood, although it is known that there is a downregulation of the central respiratory drive in response to carbon dioxide. Multiple physiologic factors acting together likely lead to this including OSA, increased work of breathing, respiratory muscle impairment, V/Q mismatching, and depressed central chemo-responsiveness to hypoxemia and hypercarbia. Most patients present with daytime sleepiness, headaches, and symptoms typical of OSA. These patients should be treated with weight loss and positive airway pressure therapy. Sustained weight loss will lead to improvements in PaCO2 over time. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy does lead to improvement in daytime hypercapnia and hypoxemia in more than half of patients with OHS and OSA but is not recommended for use if patients have sustained hypoxemia after resolution of obstructive apneic events. In these individuals bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) therapy is used. BiPAP is also used if a patient cannot tolerate the typically high levels of CPAP required for treatment. Some patients with OHS may present acutely with decompensated symptoms of right heart failure and respiratory failure as in this scenario. When a patient presents in acute decompensated OHS, BiPAP is the treatment of choice acutely as well. Even in patients who have previously failed home noninvasive therapy, this remains the treatment of choice for their acute condition and may prevent intubation and mechanical ventilation. The  PHOX2b  gene mutation plays no role in OHS but is associated with congenital central hypoventilation syndromes. 
VI-53. The answer is E. (Chap. 318)  Patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) often develop 
hypoventilation due to involvement of their respiratory pump muscles (e.g., diaphragm, intercostal muscles, sternocleidomastoids). NIPPV has been used successfully in the therapy of patients with hypoventilation such as ALS. Nocturnal NIPPV can improve daytime hypercapnia, prolong survival, and improve health-related quality of life. Current ALS guidelines are to institute NIPPV if symptoms of hypoventilation exist and PaCO2 is ≥45 mmHg, nocturnal desaturation to <89% is documented for 5 consecutive minutes, maximal inspiratory pressure is <60 cmH2O, or FVC is <50% predicted. Symptoms of hypoventilation are not particular to ALS and may include the following: dyspnea during activities of daily living, orthopnea in diseases that affect diaphragm function, poor-quality sleep, daytime hypersomnolence, early morning headaches, anxiety, and impaired cough in neuromuscular disease. 
VI-54. The answer is B. (Chap. 319)  Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is a 
common condition estimated to affect up to 2%–15% of middle-aged individuals and >20% of 
elderly individuals and is associated with repeated collapse of the upper airway during sleep. This patient exhibits multiple risk factors and gives a strong history to support a diagnosis of OSAHS, placing him at high risk to have moderate to severe OSAHS. The greatest risk factor the patient has that places him at high risk for disease is obesity. Approximately 40%–60% of cases of OSAHS are attributable to excess body weight. The second major risk factor for OSAHS is male sex because men are two to four times more likely to have OSAHS than women. The reasons men develop more OSAHS include greater central obesity and relatively longer pharyngeal length, which in turn contribute to greater upper airway collapsibility. In addition, female sex hormones provide a stabilizing effect on the upper airway and stimulate ventilatory drive. Thus, premenopausal women are relatively protected from OSAHS at comparable levels of obesity when compared to men. Other risk factors that this patient has include a positive family history of the disease and hypertension. Other common risk factors for OSAHS in the general population include craniofacial abnormalities, adenotonsillar hypertrophy, various endocrine syndromes (acromegaly, hypothyroidism), increasing age, and some ethnic groups. For instance, individuals of Asian descent often develop OSAHS at a lower range of body mass index, most likely due to ethnic difference in craniofacial structure. In addition, individuals of African American race are at higher risk of OSAHS when compared to whites. This patient also gives many symptoms that are concerning for OSAHS including loud snoring, witnessed apneas, and daytime sleepiness. Given that there is a high clinical suspicion of disease, home sleep testing will likely be adequate for diagnosis of disease in this patient. Home sleep tests can be performed in a variety of ways, but most will record respiratory effort, nasal flow, and oxygen saturation. In a patient with a high suspicion of disease, these tests can be a cost-efficient means of diagnosis. However, the home tests may yield false-negative results because these tests do not measure the electroencephalogram, and thus, no accurate measure of sleep time is obtained. Therefore, the respiratory events are determined based on total recording time rather than total sleep time. If a patient is awake during much of the recording time, this could cause a false-negative result. An attended in-lab polysomnogram remains the gold standard for diagnosis OSAHS but is significantly more expensive. In this individual with a high pretest suspicion of disease, the cost would not be justified. An overnight oximetry provides only oxygen levels and heart rate and is not adequate for diagnosis of OSAHS. Treatment with a CPAP device may be recommended after a diagnosis is confirmed, but this would not be the next step in the treatment of the patient. The patient has only minimally enlarged tonsils. A tonsillectomy would not be expected to alleviate his symptoms. 
VI-55. The answer is E. (Chap. 319)  There are numerous benefits to treating OSAHS, and the 
consequences of untreated OSAHS are numerous and can be severe. They primarily fall in one of three categories: neurocognitive, cardiovascular, and metabolic. The neurocognitive effects are the ones most readily identified by the patient and include daytime sleepiness and inability to concentrate. In addition, individuals with untreated OSAHS have an increased risk of depression, particularly somatic depression with irritability, fatigue, and lack of energy. Moreover, untreated OSAHS increases the risk of occupational accidents by more than twofold and automobile accidents by as much as sevenfold. In addition to the neurocognitive effects, untreated OSA leads to increased sympathetic nervous system activity and increased systemic inflammatory responses. This leads to a loss of the normal nocturnal fall in blood pressure. However, treatment with CPAP can reduce 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, although the overall effect on blood pressure is modest, decreasing the blood pressure about by 2–4 mmHg. Other cardiovascular and metabolic effects include an increased risk of coronary artery disease, heart failure with and without reduced ejection fraction, atrial and ventricular arrhythmias, atherosclerosis, stroke, and diabetes. Treatment with CPAP yields improvements in insulin resistance, decreases the recurrence rate of atrial fibrillation, and reduces several biomarkers of cardiovascular disease. 
VI-56. The answer is E. (Chap. 319)  Cheyne-Stokes respiration is a type of central sleep apnea 
associated with hypocapnia and demonstrates a crescendo-decrescendo pattern of breathing. Pathophysiologically, this occurs because the baseline carbon dioxide during wakefulness is below the apneic threshold during sleep. Thus, at sleep onset, a central apneic event occurs allowing carbon dioxide to rise. When this rise in carbon dioxide is detected centrally, there is an 
exaggerated respiratory response that leads to hyperpnea and hyperventilation, driving the carbon dioxide levels below the apneic threshold again, creating a self-perpetuating cycle of apnea and hyperpnea. It occurs more commonly in individuals with heart failure or atrial fibrillation due to a delay in circulation time. This prolonged circulation delay between the pulmonary capillaries and the central carbon dioxide–sensing chemoreceptors contributes to these ongoing cycles of hyperpnea and apnea. In many individuals with Cheyne-Stokes respiration, it has been observed that the pattern of breathing may worsen over the course of the night and the fluid is redistributed centrally, further prolonging circulation time. 
VI-57. The answer is A. (Chap. 319)  The treatment of choice for most adults with OSAHS is nasal 
CPAP. CPAP delivers a set pressure that is sufficient to overcome the tendency of the posterior oropharynx to collapse. This pressure ranges generally from 5–15 cmH2O, although pressures as high as 20 cmH2O can be used. However, the rates of adherence to CPAP therapy are highly variable. Many patients complain of claustrophobia, nasal congestion, aerophagia, or facial pain. If tolerated, there is a large body of data demonstrating beneficial effects of CPAP on blood pressure, alertness, mood, and insulin sensitivity, and likely improvement in cardiovascular outcomes. Oral appliance therapy is generally considered second-line therapy in mild to moderate OSA if the patient fails to tolerate CPAP. It can be prescribed as initial therapy if the patient prefers. In most studies, the improvement in the apnea-hypopnea index with oral appliance is ≥50% in about two-thirds of individuals. Side effects of oral appliances include temporomandibular joint pain and tooth movement. Surgical interventions for OSAHS in adults have provided less than desired benefits, and it can be difficult to determine which patients will derive  the  greatest  benefits  in  the  absence  of  a  known  anatomic  abnormality. 
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty is the most common surgical procedure over the past two decades and is associated with a success rate similar to oral appliance therapy. Weight loss is generally recommended for all patients with OSAHS but should not be the only therapy recommended for an individual with this degree of OSAHS. Supplemental oxygen can improve oxygen saturation, but there is little evidence that it improves OSAHS symptoms and the apnea-hypopnea index. 
VI-58. The answer is D. (Chap. 320e)  Common indications for lung transplantation include COPD, 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, CF, emphysema, and pulmonary arterial hypertension ( Table VI- 58 ). Five-year survival is similar for all indications for lung transplantation at approximately 50%. For most indications, double lung transplantation is the preferred procedure, and it is mandatory for patients with suppurative lung disease like CF. In general, in patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, double lung transplantation is preferred because of concern of overcirculation in the low-resistance vascular bed transplanted lung when a native lung is present with markedly elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. It is rare for the primary disease to recur after transplantation, and this has not been described in idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension. The right ventricle is highly plastic and will generally recover function after elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is removed by lung transplantation. Subsequently, it is rare to perform heart-lung transplantation in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients unless there is concomitant complex congenital heart disease that cannot be repaired at the time of lung transplantation. 
TALBLE VI-58    Disease-Specific Guidelines for Referral and Transplantation 
VI-59. The answer is A. (Chap. 320e)  The long-term complications of lung transplantation are 
multisystem and range from the diseases that affect the lung and are complications of a foreign body in the chest to distant organ disease, either due to infections or complications of immunosuppressive therapy. Although osteoporosis, posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorders, and chronic kidney disease are important complications of steroids, calcineurin inhibitors, and other agents used for immunosuppression, the major complications after transplantation are in the lung. Primary graft dysfunction is a form of acute lung injury immediately after lung transplantation that is relatively rare, with severe disease occurring in only 10%–20% of cases. Airway complications such as anastomotic dehiscence or stenosis have similar occurrence rates, but can usually be managed bronchoscopically with good survival. Rejection of transplanted organ is very common and is the main limitation to better medium- and long-term outcomes. Rejection occurs as acute cellular rejection often presenting with cough, low-grade fever, dyspnea, infiltrates on radiographs, and declining lung function. In contrast, chronic rejection typically presents with advancing obstruction on pulmonary function testing,  no  infiltrates,  and  worsening  dyspnea  on  exertion.  This  constellation  in 
posttransplantation patients is termed bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome. Fifty percent of lung transplant patients have some degree of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome, and it is the main impediment to better long-term survival. Therapy often involves augmented immunosuppression, although there is no consensus of how to do this or the duration of this augmentation. 
VI-60. The answer is B. (Chap. 320e)  Chronic kidney disease is a common finding in patients after 
lung transplantation and is associated with poorer outcomes. Although rarely patients may have hemolytic-uremic syndrome underlying the kidney disease, it is usually acute, and the most common etiology of gradually progressive decline in renal function is calcineurin inhibitor neuropathy. Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are calcineurin inhibitors commonly used in immunosuppressive regimens after lung transplantation. The exact mechanism of this toxicity is unclear but may include a direct toxicity of inhibition of the calcineurin-NFAT system within the kidney, alteration in glomerular blood flow, and host-environment interactions within the kidney with calcineurin inhibitors. Prednisone, albuterol, and mycophenolate mofetil are not known to be nephrotoxic. 
VI-61. The answer is A. (Chap. 321)  Several different severity of illness (SOI) scores have been 
developed for use in critically ill populations. Two of the most common systems are the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) score and the Simplified Acute Physiology (SAPS II) score. SOI scores are primarily useful as tools to assess populations of critically ill individuals, but the scores do not perform well at predicting individual patient outcomes. These scores are used primarily in clinical trials to compare SOI between groups of patients enrolled in trials. These scores are also used by hospital administrations to assess quality of intensive care unit (ICU) care over time and also to help determine appropriate nursing and ancillary support staffing levels. No SOI score should be used to direct an individual patient’s care, although decision support tools based on SOI scores are being investigated. The APACHE II score is the most commonly used SOI score. This score assigns values based on a variety of demographic, medical history, and clinical values taking the worst value in the first 24 hours after admission. Population mortality ranges based on published values range from <5%–10% for scores between 0 and 4 and as high as 80%–90% for scores ≥35 points. Updated versions of the APACHE score (APACHE III and IV) have been published. The SAPS II score is more frequently used in Europe. This score is not disease specific, although it does add higher values for AIDS, metastatic cancer, or hematologic malignancy. Both scores are used in a similar manner. 
VI-62. The answer is C. (Chap. 321)  Oxygen delivery (QO2) is a function of both cardiac output (CO) 
and the oxygen content of the blood (CaO2) and can be expressed by the following equation: 
QO2 = CO × [1.39 × hemoglobin × SaO2 + (0.003 × PaO2)] 
From this equation, the effect of PaO2 on overall oxygen delivery is negligible. Nearly all oxygen delivered to the tissues is bound to hemoglobin. One can improve oxygen delivery by increasing 
cardiac output, increasing hemoglobin, or improving oxygen saturation. 
VI-63. The answer is C. (Chap. 321)  In patients admitted to the ICU, one of the most important 
aspects of care is to prevent complications that may occur during the process of care. One of the most common complications is nosocomial infections, including hospital- or ventilator-acquired pneumonia, catheter-related bloodstream infections, urinary tract infections, and  Clostridium difficile  infection. It is important to remove indwelling devices such as central lines, urinary catheters, and endotracheal tubes as soon as clinically possible. Another important preventative measure to decrease nosocomial infections includes ensuring appropriate sterile procedures for device insertion. Using care bundles and emphasizing good hand washing protocols are important strategies for decreasing nosocomial infections. Individuals in the ICU are also at increased risk of deep venous thrombosis due to immobility and often have factors that increase hypercoagulability. Standard interventions to prevent deep venous thrombosis include use of low-molecular-weight heparin or low-dose heparin along with sequential compression devices. Protection against development of stress ulcers is accomplished with histamine-2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors. The patients who benefit most from stress ulcer prophylaxis are those with coagulopathy, shock, or respiratory failure. Enteral nutrition is preferred over parenteral nutrition, although no definitive data demonstrate that early use of enteral nutrition provides benefit. ICU-acquired weakness is also a common complication of ICU care. The mechanisms are poorly understood. Interventions that may improve functional outcomes in critical illness include early physical and occupational therapy. Use of tight glucose control with intensive insulin therapy was thought to improve ICU outcomes, but further study has demonstrated no benefits on nosocomial infection and increased hypoglycemia with this mode of therapy. 
VI-64 and VI-65.  The answers are E and A, respectively. (Chap. 322)  This patient has evidence of 
severe ARDS. The annual incidence of ARDS is 60 cases per 100,000 population. In individuals admitted to the ICU with respiratory failure, approximately 20% of these will meet the criteria for ARDS, although it is generally underrecognized in the ICU population. ARDS is a clinical syndrome of severe dyspnea of rapid onset, hypoxemia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates that may lead to respiratory failure. There are myriad causes of ARDS, including sepsis, pneumonia, aspiration pneumonitis, trauma, acute pancreatitis, multiple transfusions, and toxic inhalation injury among others. The most common causes of ARDS are sepsis and pneumonia, which cause about 40%–50% of all cases of ARDS. Clinically, ARDS is diagnosed in the presence of acute bilateral pulmonary infiltrates and hypoxemia without evidence of increased left atrial filling pressure. A consensus panel has recently revised the definition of ARDS into three categories of mild, moderate, and severe based on degree of hypoxemia as determined by the ratio of PaO2 to FiO2, commonly called P:F ratio. Mild ARDS is present if PaO2/FiO2 is ≤300 mmHg, but >200 mm Hg. Moderate ARDS is diagnosed when PaO2/FiO2 is ≤200 mmHg and >100 mmHg. Severe ARDS is diagnosed when PaO2/FiO2 is ≤100 mmHg. In this case, the ratio of PaO2 to FiO2 is 80 mmHg, placing the patient in the category of severe ARDS. The natural history of ARDS is three stages: exudative, proliferative, and fibrotic. In the early exudative stage of ARDS, there is an acute injury to alveolar capillary endothelial cells and type I pneumocytes. This results in loss of the normal alveolar barrier with subsequent leakage of protein-rich fluid into the alveoli (noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). In the early phase, the inflammatory cell infiltrate is predominantly neutrophils. Pathologically, the finding is described as diffuse alveolar damage. Hyaline membranes and loss of type I pneumocytes are seen. The exudative phase of ARDS lasts for approximately the first 7 days of illness. The second phase of ARDS is the proliferative phase, which begins around day 7 and continues through day 21. Most patients recover during this phase and are able to be liberated from mechanical ventilation. Histologically, early signs of repair can be seen in this phase with shift to a lymphocyte- predominant infiltrate, proliferation of type II pneumocytes, and organization of the alveolar 
predominant infiltrate, proliferation of type II pneumocytes, and organization of the alveolar edema. Only a few individuals who develop ARDS fail to recover during the proliferative phase and continue into the fibrotic stage of the disease. Pathologically, individuals who develop fibrotic ARDS demonstrate extensive alveolar and interstitial fibrosis at sites of prior alveolar edema. The acinar architecture frequently becomes distorted, leading to development of emphysematous changes with large bullae. Fibrotic proliferation may also occur in the intima of 
pulmonary vasculature, leading to development of pulmonary hypertension. Given the timing of the presentation, this patient would be expected to be in the exudative phase of ARDS and exhibit diffuse alveolar damage, loss of type I pneumocytes, and hyaline membranes. 
VI-66. The answer is B. (Chap. 322)  This individual has severe ARDS due to trauma, a pulmonary 
contusion, and possible transfusion-related lung injury. Mechanical ventilation is frequently necessary for individuals suffering from ARDS and has been essential for prolonging life and improving mortality from this disorder. However, appropriate ventilator management is necessary to prevent further morbidity from ventilator-associated lung injury. ARDS is not experienced uniformly across the lung tissue. The dependent portions of the lungs are typically the most affected, while other areas of the lung may be spared. The portions of the lung that are most affected are poorly compliant and are prone to alveolar collapse. Alternatively, the more normal portions of the lungs have better lung compliance. With positive-pressure ventilation, ventilator-associated lung injury may occur as a result of overdistention of the more normal areas of the lung with resultant perpetuation of alveolar damage and capillary leak in these areas. In the poorly compliant areas, respirations initiated by the ventilator can lead to repetitive opening and closure of alveoli, causing further damage in these areas. Because of this, a strategy that employs low tidal volumes to prevent alveolar overdistention and recurrent alveolar collapse is recommended. The ARDS Network conducted a clinical trial that compared low tidal volume ventilation to conventional ventilation and demonstrated improved mortality with the low tidal volume strategy (31% vs. 40%). The recommended initial tidal volume setting is 6 mL/kg of ideal body weight. This strategy is recommended in all patients with ARDS, and the improvement in outcomes is not affected by obesity. 
VI-67. The answer is D. (Chap. 322)  Hypoxemia in ARDS results in shunt physiology with the 
presence of alveolar and interstitial fluid and loss of surfactant. In turn, there is significant loss of lung compliance and development of alveolar collapse that is worse in the dependent portions of the lungs. During mechanical ventilation, the goal is to minimize overdistention of less affected areas of the lungs while maximizing alveolar recruitment. Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is used to prevent alveolar collapse at end-expiration. Trials of mechanical ventilation with high-PEEP compared to low-PEEP strategies did not show any differences in outcomes when a low tidal volume ventilation strategy was used. More recently, a trial used a strategy that involved constructing static pressure-volume curves of the lung on the mechanical ventilator. With this strategy, a lower inflection point can be calculated. This point identifies the pressure at which the alveoli open. In ARDS, this point is typically 12–15 cmH2O. In theory, setting the PEEP to this pressure will maximize oxygenation and prevent lung injury. Trials of this mode of ventilation improve lung function and may have an effect on mortality. More recently, strategies employing esophageal pressure catheters to estimate optimal transpulmonary pressure are being studied to determine the effects on oxygenation, duration of mechanical ventilation, and mortality. 
VI-68. The answer is B. (Chap. 322 and N Engl J Med 2006;354: 2564–2575 )  Optimal fluid 
management in ARDS is felt to be important to minimize extravasation of fluid into the interstitium and alveolar spaces. However, in individuals with septic shock or other causes of hypotension, expansion of fluid volume to optimal levels is important in the management of hypotension. Whether an aggressive or conservative fluid management strategy was most important in acute lung injury was not known as there were concerns that a conservative fluid management strategy would increase the likelihood of end-organ failure, especially acute kidney injury. A trial sponsored by the ARDS Network attempted to answer this question by randomizing individuals with acute lung injury to a conservative versus liberal fluid management strategy. This trial demonstrated that a conservative fluid management strategy to 
management strategy. This trial demonstrated that a conservative fluid management strategy to maintain low left atrial pressure improved pulmonary mechanics and oxygenation while decreasing the duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay, and mortality. At the same time, there was no increased incidence of acute kidney injury. 
VI-69. The answer is C. (Chap. 323)  Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) refers to respiratory support that is 
provided through a tight-fitting face mask or nasal mask. NIV can be administered with bilevel positive expiratory pressure ventilation or pressure support ventilation. Both modes of ventilation provide a higher positive pressure with inspiration and decrease to a lower pressure with expiration to decrease work of breathing and provide assisted ventilation. The major difficulty with using NIV clinically is poor patient tolerance due to the use of a tight-fitting mask and psychological discomfort and anxiety. The primary group of individuals who have benefited from the use of NIV are those with acute exacerbations of COPD. In those with COPD, several randomized trials have shown low failure rates in individuals with pH of 7.25 to 7.35, along with decreased need for invasive ventilation, decreased length of ICU stay, and decreased mortality in some studies. In those with pH >7.35, NIV confers no benefit over standard therapy. In those with pH <7.25, use of NIV has a higher failure rate that is inversely proportional to the degree of acidosis. Another group of individuals who may benefit from NIV are those with decompensated systolic heart failure with respiratory acidosis. In these individuals, a large clinical trial demonstrated a decreased need for invasive mechanical ventilation. NIV in these individuals decreased both preload and afterload and can provide assistance to the failing heart (Gray A, et al:  N Engl J Med  2008;359(2):142–151). A last group for which NIV has shown promise is in individuals immediately after extubation, especially individuals with COPD or hypercapnic respiratory failure. NIV is associated with higher failure rates in individuals with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and ARDS. Invasive mechanical ventilation is the ventilatory method of choice in these individuals, although not strictly contraindicated. Contraindications to mechanical ventilation include absence of spontaneous respirations, cardiac or respiratory arrest, severe encephalopathy, severe gastrointestinal bleed, hemodynamic instability, unstable angina or acute myocardial infarction, facial surgery or trauma, upper airway obstruction, inability to protect airway, and inability to clear secretions. 
VI-70 ,  VI-71 ,  VI-72 ,  and VI-73. The answers are C, B, A, and D, respectively. (Chap. 323) 
Mechanical ventilation can be delivered in many different modes, which refers to the manner in which the breaths are triggered, cycled, and delivered. The most common mode of mechanical ventilation is assist-control. This mode is volume cycled and flow limited. An inspiratory cycle may be triggered by patient effort or, if there is no patient effort within a specific time, by a timer within the ventilator. Each breath, whether triggered by patient effort or the ventilator, delivers an operator-specified tidal volume. This mode is frequently the initial mode of mechanical ventilation when a patient is intubated as it ensures a known minute ventilation in the absence of respiratory effort. Common difficulties with the use of assist-control ventilation are asynchrony with the ventilator and tachypnea, which can lead to respiratory alkalosis and/or generation of dynamic hyperinflation. This occurs when a patient triggers an inspiratory cycle before a full exhalation occurs. Commonly known as auto-PEEP, dynamic hyperinflation can lead to decreased venous return and a fall in cardiac output. It may also lead to barotrauma, including pneumothorax and pneumomediastinum. Intermittent mandatory ventilation (IMV) is a mixed mode of ventilation. IMV is primarily a volume-cycled and flow-limited mode of ventilation and is most often delivered in a synchronized mode (SIMV). The ventilator will deliver a mandatory number of breaths at a specified tidal volume. If a patient breathes only at the set respiratory rate, SIMV is essentially the same as assist-control ventilation. When a patient breathes above the set respiratory rate, the spontaneous breaths may be unassisted or assisted with a pressure support mode of ventilation. SIMV was commonly used as a weaning mode of ventilation, but clinical trials have shown that trials of spontaneous breathing lead to a shorter duration of mechanical ventilation and more rapid extubation. Pressure control ventilation (PCV) is time triggered, time cycled, and pressure limited. This mode is often used in individuals who have preexisting barotrauma or for postoperative thoracic surgery patients. It is also used in ARDS to limit ventilator-induced lung injury. In PCV, there is no prespecified minimum tidal 
ARDS to limit ventilator-induced lung injury. In PCV, there is no prespecified minimum tidal volume or minute ventilation. Rather, a specified pressure is set during inspiration by the operator, and the tidal volume and inspiratory flow rate are dependent upon lung compliance. Pressure support ventilation (PSV) is patient triggered, flow cycled, and pressure limited. PSV requires a patient to spontaneously initiate respiration because no machine-delivered breaths are given. PSV provides graded assistance through application of an inspiratory pressure that augments spontaneous respiration. The pressure support falls to a specified expiratory pressure 
when the flow falls below a certain rate. PSV is often combined with SIMV to augment the spontaneously generated breaths. PSV also is used in ventilator weaning as it is generally well tolerated. 
VI-74. The answer is C. (Chap. 323)  Spontaneous breathing trials (SBTs) have been determined to be 
the best way to assess whether a patient has recovered sufficiently from respiratory failure to be extubated. An SBT can be implemented via T-piece, CPAP at low levels of pressure (1–5 cmH2O), or pressure support ventilation applied to offset the resistance of the endotracheal tube. A patient will undergo an SBT from 30 minutes to 2 hours to determine if respiration can be maintained to support liberation from mechanical ventilation. It is important to recognize which patients are appropriate to undergo SBT. The following conditions predict patients who are ready for weaning attempts: (1) lung injury is stable or resolving; (2) gas exchange is adequate, with PEEP generally <8 cmH2O and FiO2 <0.5; (3) hemodynamic parameters are stable without need for ongoing vasopressor support; and (4) the patient has spontaneous respiratory activity. 
VI-75. The answer is A. (Chap. 324)  Shock is a complex pathophysiologic process that occurs in 
response to a decline in tissue perfusion. Clinically, shock states manifest with a mean arterial pressure <60 mmHg. This nonspecific term can be caused by many different etiologies including sepsis, hypovolemia, trauma, hypoadrenal states, neurologic causes, and cardiac causes. Shock states result in a decrease in tissue oxygen delivery. In turn, this creates a multifaceted response that can become a self-perpetuating process that leads to further tissue injury. Hypotension disinhibits the vasomotor center, leading to increased adrenergic output and decreased vagal tone. Norepinephrine leads to significant splanchnic and peripheral vasoconstriction in an attempt to maintain cerebral and cardiac blood flow. Other constrictor substances are secreted as well including angiotensin II, vasopressin, endothelin-1, and thromboxane A2. In addition, there is pressure to maintain intravascular fluid volume through alterations in hydrostatic pressure and osmolarity. However, constriction of arterioles leads to reduction in capillary hydrostatic pressure and the number of capillary beds perfused. This limits the capillary surface area available for perfusion with the resultant increase in vascular oncotic pressure. This in turn leads to a net reabsorption of fluid into the vascular bed. Metabolic changes including glycolysis, lipolysis, and proteolysis further increase interstitial and intravascular volume at the expense of intracellular volume due to their effects on raising extracellular osmolarity. Within the cells, there is rapid depletion of high-energy phosphate stores. This leads to mitochondrial dysfunction with uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation with accumulation of reactive oxygen species, lactate, and hydrogen ions. The byproducts of anaerobic metabolism can overcome the compensatory vasoconstrictor mechanisms and lead to further hypotension. Extensive proinflammatory pathways are activated in shock and contribute to the development of multiple organ dysfunction and failure. After the initial insult, a counterregulatory process should be initiated to balance the proinflammatory response. In individuals who have an excessive proinflammatory response that cannot be effectively regulated, the inflammatory process may continue unregulated and lead to further organ injury and failure. At the system level, shock affects a variety of endocrine, cardiac, pulmonary, and renal processes, among others. In addition to increases in norepinephrine, the stress associated with shock increases adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) to increase cortisol secretion. Renin is also released in response to adrenergic discharge and decreased renal perfusion. Renin induces the formation of angiotensin I, which is converted to the active angiotensin II, which is a potent vasoconstrictor. Angiotensin II also stimulates release of aldosterone and vasopressin. The cardiac response to shock is to initially compensate by increasing heart rate. Many causes of shock, however, are 
shock is to initially compensate by increasing heart rate. Many causes of shock, however, are associated with depression of myocardial contractility such that stroke volume is decreased for any given filling pressure. The pulmonary response may lead to development of noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, ARDS, and decreased lung compliance. Finally, the kidney responds to shock by conserving salt and water. 
VI-76. The answer is E. (Chap. 324)  Different causes of shock are associated with different physiologic 
findings throughout the vascular system. Although rarely used in most cases of shock, a 
pulmonary artery catheter can be used to measure these values. However, it is important to understand pathologically what occurs in the vascular system. The typical measured variables include cardiac output (CO), systemic vascular resistance (SVR), mixed venous oxygen saturation (SVO2), central venous pressure (CVP), and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP). Patients who have interruption of sympathetic vasomotor input after high cervical cord injury or major head injury may experience neurogenic shock. In neurogenic shock, there is arteriolar dilation and venodilation. The result is a fall in all variables measured (CO, SVR, SVO2, CVP, and PCWP) (option E). Hypovolemia is the most common cause of shock and occurs due to acute blood loss or significant loss of plasma volume due to extravascular fluid sequestration. Gastrointestinal or renal fluid losses may also lead to hypovolemic shock. In hypovolemic shock, CO is low; SVR is elevated; and SVO2, CVP, and PCWP are low (option A). Cardiogenic shock (option B) has similarly low CO, elevated SVR, and low SVO2. However, CVP and PCWP are elevated. Septic shock can be hyperdynamic or hypodynamic. Early in the septic shock, the hyperdynamic state predominates and is associated with increased CO, low SVR, and low SVO2. CVP and PCWP are variable and may be low, normal, or elevated (option C). The hypodynamic state of septic shock is associated with low CO and high SVR with variable effect of CVP, PCWP, and SVO2. Shock following trauma is most often due to hypovolemia. However, after intravascular volume is restored, some individuals will continue to experience hypotension due to loss of plasma volume into the interstitium and injured tissues. This type of shock will be associated with variable effects on CO and SVR with low SVO2, CVP, and PCWP. Finally, hypoadrenalism is a rare cause of shock associated with unrecognized adrenal insufficiency. Hypoadrenal shock presents with a low CO, low SVO2, low CVP, low PCWP, and normal to low SVR. 
VI-77. The answer is A. (Chap. 325)  Sepsis and septic shock represent a harmful host response to 
infection and are contributing factors to more than 200,000 deaths in the United States each year. Over the past 30 years, the incidence of sepsis has risen along with our aging population. Annually, there are more than 750,000 cases of sepsis yearly with an incidence of 3 per 1000 population. Most cases of sepsis occur in individuals with underlying illness. The incidence also increases with age and increasing comorbidities. Other risk factors for sepsis include immunocompromised state and indwelling vascular or mechanical devices. The most common source of infection in individuals with sepsis is the lungs, accounting for 64% of cases of sepsis. Microbial invasion of the bloodstream is not required for an individual to develop the systemic response that leads to multiorgan dysfunction in sepsis. Blood cultures are only positive in 40%– 70% of cases of septic shock and approximately 20%–40% of cases of severe sepsis. When a culture is positive from any site, the most common organisms are gram-negative bacteria (62%), with  P aeruginosa  and  Escherichia coli  being the most common. Gram-positive bacteria are present in approximately 47% of cases, and 19% occurred in people infected with fungi. Because the numbers add up to >100%, it should be noted that multiple bacteria may be implicated in sepsis. 
VI-78. The answer is C. (Chap. 325 and JAMA 2016;315:801–810)  Sepsis represents a dysregulated 
host response to infection, and severity can range broadly from a mild inflammatory response to refractory septic shock ( Table VI-78 ). Multiple professional medical societies have attempted to create a standardized definition of sepsis and septic shock over the years to aid in early identification of sepsis with the goal of improving patient outcomes. The most recent definition of sepsis simplifies diagnosis into two categories: sepsis and septic shock. This eliminates prior categories included in the continuum of sepsis including systemic inflammatory response 
categories included in the continuum of sepsis including systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and severe sepsis. SIRS criteria may be present in many individuals with infection who do not develop progressive symptoms of sepsis. The symptoms that may indicate a harmful systemic response to infection are many of those previously included in the SIRS definition, including fever or hypothermia, tachypnea, tachycardia, and leukocytosis. However, SIRS can be present due to systemic inflammatory responses with other stresses such as trauma or acute pancreatitis that are not caused by infection. Thus, the term SIRS is neither sensitive nor specific for identifying patients at risk of developing sepsis. Severe sepsis was also a term with 
limited specificity and did not provide additional risk stratification. In the simplified definition, there is greater reliance on use of the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score. Sepsis is thus defined as a suspected or documented infection with an acute increase of ≥2 points, whereas septic shock is clinically defined as sepsis with need for vasopressor support and elevated lactate (>2 mmol/L) despite adequate fluid resuscitation. The SOFA score incorporates a variety of measures to determine the magnitude of multiorgan dysfunction. Variables include PaO2/FiO2 ratio, platelet count, bilirubin, Glasgow Coma Scale score, creatinine, urine output, and blood pressure/vasopressor support. Sepsis is identified as evidence of infection with evidence of organ dysfunction. Using the SOFA score as a determinant of organ dysfunction creates a more standard measure for identifying sepsis. A patient may be considered in refractory septic shock if the mean arterial pressure remains low for >1 hour despite fluid resuscitation and vasopressors. Refractory septic shock is not included in the guidelines. 
TALBLE VI-78    Definitions Used to Describe the Condition of Septic Patients 
VI-79. The answer is B. (Chap. 325)  Blood cultures are positive in only 40%–70% of cases of sepsis, 
although in most individuals, a source of infection can be identified through examination of infected material (e.g., sputum, abscess fluid, urine) or through the identification of RNA or DNA in blood or tissue samples. In some individuals, the immediate source of infection is not apparent. In cases of sepsis and septic shock, it is important to initiate antibiotic therapy immediately while awaiting culture data to become available. A delay in antibiotic therapy as little as 1 hour has been associated with lower survival rates. In addition, use of “inappropriate” antibiotics defined on the basis of local susceptibility patterns and published guidelines for 
empiric antibiotic therapy is associated with a fivefold increase in mortality. This patient has evidence of septic shock and has had a prior splenectomy. Patients who have had splenectomy are at risk for sepsis due to encapsulated organisms. In these individuals, sepsis is most commonly caused by  Streptococcus pneumoniae , but  Haemophilus influenzae  and  Neisseria meningitidis  may also be implicated. In an asplenic patient with sepsis, the patient should be empirically treated with cefotaxime or ceftriaxone. In areas where there is significant resistance of  S pneumoniae  to cephalosporins, vancomycin should be added. In most areas, the cephalosporin resistance is only 1%. If a patient is allergic to cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones should be used as an alternative medication. 
VI-80. The answer is B. (Chap. 325)  Mortality in sepsis remains high, with approximately 20%–35% 
of individuals dying when severe sepsis is present and up to 60% dying due to septic shock. Mortality increases with increasing age and number of comorbidities. Numerous interventions have been attempted to try to decrease mortality by providing better supportive care or targeting the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms that lead to organ failure in sepsis. An example of a supportive measure that has been proven ineffective in sepsis is insulin therapy to achieve tight glucose control. The rationale for lower blood glucose in sepsis was that hyperglycemia was associated with poorer outcomes in critical illness. After initial enthusiasm from data generated by a single-center trial in a surgical ICU, the benefits were not demonstrated in a medically ill population. Meta-analyses have concluded that intensive insulin therapy does not affect survival and may lead to harm, particularly from hypoglycemia. Anemia also frequently develops in individuals with critical illness. The target hemoglobin necessary to maintain oxygen-carrying capacity has to be balanced against potential harm from transfusion therapy, including infection and transfusion-associated acute lung injury. A randomized trial demonstrated that patients were not harmed by a lower hemoglobin threshold for transfusion (7 g/dL) compared to a higher hemoglobin goal (9 g/dL). Patients with refractory hypotension in sepsis have been shown to have a relative deficiency of cortisol in the face of profound metabolic stress. This so-called critical illness–related corticosteroid insufficiency may lead to worse outcomes in critical illness. Trials to determine which patients would most benefit from corticosteroid replacement used adrenocorticotropin hormone stimulation to assess adrenal response to stimulus. However, this approach did not lead to improved outcomes, and most practitioners favor a more empiric approach to corticosteroid replacement. Hydrocortisone should be considered at a dose of 50 mg every 6 hours in patients with septic shock on vasopressors. If clinical improvement occurs with use of hydrocortisone over 24–48 hours, then a course of therapy for 5–7 days is indicated. Other interventions that have been trialed but failed for septic shock include endotoxin-neutralizing proteins, inhibitors of cyclooxygenase or nitric oxide synthase, anticoagulants, polyclonal antibodies, and inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1, platelet-activating factor, and tissue factor pathway. One of the most widely known medications used for sepsis was recombinant activated protein C (APC). This medication was approved by the FDA for severe sepsis and septic shock based on the outcome of a randomized controlled trial that showed a mortality benefit in patients who were more severely ill. Subsequent trials showed no benefit in patients with less severe illness and in children. A subsequent confirmatory trial showed no benefit to APC, and it was removed from the market 10 years after being approved. 
VI-81. The answer is D. (Chap. 326)  The ECG shows ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, and V3-V6. 
This patient is presenting in cardiogenic shock in the setting of acute anterior myocardial infarction (MI), likely due to occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. 
infarction (MI), likely due to occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Cardiogenic shock is characterized by systemic hypoperfusion due to depression of the cardiac index and sustained arterial hypotension despite an elevated filling pressure. The incidence of cardiogenic shock was as high as 20% in the 1960s. Over time, this has decreased to about 5%– 7% in the setting of early reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction (MI). The cause of cardiogenic shock in acute MI is primarily due to left ventricular pump failure in approximately 80% of cases but can be associated with acute mitral regurgitation in the setting of papillary muscle dysfunction, ventricular septal rupture, right ventricular failure in inferior MI, or free wall rupture. Only 25% of patients who develop cardiogenic shock in the setting of acute MI will present already in shock. Another 25% will develop it within the first 6 hours after presentation. 
The other 50% of individuals who develop cardiogenic shock in acute MI will develop it after this time point. Rapid recognition and treatment of the underlying myocardial ischemia are the most important tools in the management of patients with acute MI and cardiogenic shock. Supportive measures include providing adequate volume to maintain left ventricular filling pressure and treatment of pain while avoiding medications that have negative inotropic effects. Mechanical ventilation is commonly required to prevent hypoxemia. Augmentation of blood pressure to maintain cardiac perfusion is often required. No vasopressor agent has been shown to change the outcome of patients in established cardiogenic shock. Norepinephrine is a potent vasoconstrictor and inotropic agent. In a trial comparing norepinephrine with dopamine, norepinephrine was associated with fewer adverse events, including arrhythmias. Given the relative safety compared to dopamine, norepinephrine is the preferred initial agent for blood pressure support. Dopamine should be a second-line agent in this patient given the presence of ventricular ectopy and tachycardia because dopamine is associated with the development of tachyarrhythmias. Vasopressin is a potent vasoconstrictor and may be considered in only low doses in the treatment of shock. Doses greater than 0.03 U/min have been associated with coronary and mesenteric ischemia. Nitroglycerin as a continuous drip may be considered for venodilation and management of the patient’s pain. However, it would be expected to decrease blood pressure and should not be used in the absence of other means of circulatory support. Of the options listed, the best choice for circulatory support in this patient is the placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump. This temporary percutaneous device is inserted into the aorta via the femoral artery, and the balloon is expanded during ventricular diastole to maintain coronary artery perfusion pressure. During systole, the rapid deflation of the blood provides effective afterload reduction to support a failing heart. Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is rarely used for acute MI but may be considered when respiratory failure complicates cardiogenic shock. 
VI-82. The answer is A. (Chap. 326)  The patient has evidence of decompensated ischemic 
cardiomyopathy with marked volume overload, pulmonary edema, and cardiogenic shock. Initial management of this patient includes maintenance of adequate oxygenation and circulatory support while initiating diuresis.  Figure VI-82  outlines the optimal treatment for acute pulmonary edema. Oxygenation should be maintained, and intubation with mechanical ventilation is frequently required. The combination of nitroglycerin and morphine provides venodilation and decreases venous return and, in turn, decreases the work of breathing. Morphine further provides symptomatic relief of dyspnea and anxiety. Furosemide or other loop diuretics should be administered at the equivalent furosemide dose of 0.5–1.0 mg/kg. Norepinephrine may be required when the systolic blood pressure is less than 100 mmHg to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 60 mmHg. Dobutamine is a positive inotropic agent that is often used for cardiogenic shock but may acutely cause a decline in blood pressure. It should be considered when the systolic blood pressure is 70–100 mmHg without signs and symptoms of shock. 
FIGURE VI-82  ACE, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors; BP, blood pressure; IV, intravenous; SBP, systolic blood pressure; SL, sublingual. Modified from Guidelines 2000 for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care. Part 7: The era of reperfusion: Section 1: Acute coronary syndromes [acute myocardial infarction]. The American Heart Association in collaboration with the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation.  Circulation  102:I172, 2000. 
VI-83. The answer is C. (Chap. 326) Table VI-83  outlines the hemodynamic patterns that can be seen 
in various forms of shock, including shock caused by a variety of complications of acute MI. This patient presents with acute hypotension following a coronary revascularization procedure for acute anterior MI. Acute severe mitral regurgitation can occur following acute MI due to papillary muscle dysfunction and rupture, resulting in cardiogenic shock and/or pulmonary edema. This complication most often occurs within the first day after an MI, although there is a second peak of occurrence several days after MI. Other complications that can occur after MI resulting in rapid development of hypotension and cardiogenic shock include ventricular septal rupture, cardiac tamponade, and free wall rupture. It is important to understand the hemodynamics of these complications as well as other causes of shock, although clinically, pulmonary artery catheters are used less frequently these days because their use has not been 
pulmonary artery catheters are used less frequently these days because their use has not been associated with improvements in care. Normal values (option B) are shown in the top most portion of the table and are important for general knowledge regarding the circulatory system. A patient with acute mitral regurgitation (option C) would have normal to elevated right atrial pressure and elevations in the right ventricular systolic pressure and pulmonary artery pressures, although right ventricular diastolic pressure may be normal or elevated. The most characteristic finding is an elevation in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) with a prominent v wave. The large v wave represents the pressure generated during systole across the regurgitant mitral valve. Cardiac index would be low normal to low, with normal to elevated systemic vascular resistance. Individuals with cardiac tamponade demonstrate equalization of pressures across the vascular system with a low cardiac index (option E). This is manifest as right atrial 
pressure, right ventricular diastolic pressure, pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, and PCWP all manifesting similar values. Free wall rupture causes cardiac tamponade and has a dramatic presentation, often leading to death. It can present more subacutely if the pericardium is able to temporarily seal the rupture site. Ventricular septal rupture presents similarly to acute mitral regurgitation. However, the hemodynamics are different as the right atrial pressure and right ventricular diastolic pressure are typically higher, whereas PCWP may not be as elevated. Cardiogenic shock with right ventricular failure that can occur following inferior MI or pulmonary embolus will demonstrate a low cardiac index and elevated right atrial and right ventricular diastolic pressures with a wedge pressure that may be low, normal, or elevated (option D). The patient presenting with elevated cardiac output and low right atrial and ventricular pressures as well as low PCWP is most typical of a patient with septic shock. 
TALBLE VI-83    Hemodynamic Patternsa 
The answer is B. (Chap. 327)  Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is responsible for between 200,000 
and 450,000 deaths yearly in the United States. SCD is defined as natural death due to cardiac 
and 450,000 deaths yearly in the United States. SCD is defined as natural death due to cardiac causes with presentation within 1 hour or less from a change heralding the onset of the terminal clinical event and the onset of cardiac arrest. In an individual who experiences an unwitnessed death, pathologists may expand the definition to up to 24 hours after the individual was last seen to be alive and stable. If an individual is successfully resuscitated from SCD, he or she would still be classified as SCD if death occurs during the initial hospitalization or within 30 days of the resuscitated cardiac event. In two-thirds of individuals, SCD is the first clinical expression of underlying cardiac disease, and up to half of all cardiac deaths are sudden and unexpected. SCD can occur due to primary arrhythmia, arrhythmia induced following an acute cardiac event, a structural abnormality following a prior cardiac event, or acute low-output states that may occur due to acute pulmonary embolism, ruptured aortic aneurysm, anaphylaxis, and cardiac 
tamponade, among other causes. There is a peak in sudden, unexpected deaths between birth and 6 months of age (sudden infant death syndrome), with a second peak that occurs between the ages of 45 and 75 years with an incidence of 1–2 per 1000 per year. Individuals of African American descent have a higher incidence of SCD compared to the white population. Young and middle-aged men have a higher risk of SCD compared to women, but with advancing age, the gender differences in SCD disappear. Genetic factors also play a role in the risk for SCD because having a parental history of SCD as an initial presentation of cardiac disease increases the likelihood of a similar event in offspring. Other risk factors include those of cardiac disease, including smoking, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. In the past, ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia were the most common arrhythmias seen in patients experiencing SCD. However, asystole currently accounts for about 50% of all cases of SCD. Prognosis and outcome depend on the underlying etiology of the event. Ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation have significantly better outcomes when compared to individuals who present with asystole or pulseless electrical activity. 
VI-85. The answer is D. (Chap. 328)  Coma is a surprisingly common medical condition that is 
responsible for a large number of admissions to emergency and critical care units. Coma refers to a deep sleeplike state from which a patient cannot be aroused. It occurs on a continuum of disorders of decreased alertness that includes stupor, in which a patient can be transiently aroused with vigorous stimulation and with generally purposeful response to painful stimuli. Drowsiness is a light state of decreased alertness that is similar to light sleep. A patient can be aroused easily, and alertness typically persists for a period after arousal. There are multiple etiologies of coma and several disorders that can cause unresponsiveness that can be confused with coma. Some of the common causes of coma include drug intoxications, metabolic derangements, severe systemic infections, shock, seizures, hypertensive encephalopathy, concussion, meningitis, encephalitis, intracranial hemorrhage, and intracranial mass lesions, among others. One condition that is often confused with coma is the persistent vegetative state. A vegetative state refers to someone who has emerged from coma with an awake appearance but is unresponsive. There are few, if any, meaningful responses to stimuli from the environment. Persistent vegetative state occurs following significant damage to both cerebral hemispheres with preservation of brainstem function. It occurs most commonly following cardiac arrest or traumatic brain injury. A minimally conscious state is similar to the persistent vegetative state but less severe. The patient appears awake, can make rudimentary vocalizations, and may have some purposeful motor behaviors, occasionally in response to commands. Other syndromes that can mimic coma include akinetic mutism, catatonia, and locked-in state. Akinetic mutism occurs due to extreme hydrocephalus or damage to the medial thalamic nuclei or frontal lobes. In akinetic mutism, the patient appears awake and is able to think and form memories but is unable to move or speak. Upon recovery, the patient can recount events from the period of the mutism. Catatonia usually occurs in individuals with severe psychiatric illness. Patients make few voluntary or responsive movements, although they do not appear distressed. On careful examination, it usually becomes apparent the patient is responsive. Eyes will move with head rotation, and the patient will blink with a visual threat. Other subtle signs may be present as well. Locked-in syndrome occurs following an injury to the ventral pons. In this setting, the patient has normal cerebral function but has no means to produce speech or movement. The only movements a patient will have are voluntary vertical movement of the eyes and lid elevation. 
VI-86. The answer is B. (Chap. 328) Figure VI-86  shows a large left-sided subdural hematoma with 
compression of the upper midbrain and lower thalamic regions. The regions are displaced away from the mass, and there is transtentorial uncal herniation of the medial temporal lobe. Cerebral herniation occurs when brain is displaced by an adjacent mass into a contiguous compartment that it does not occupy. There are several types of brain herniation: uncal, central, transfalcical, and foraminal. The most common type is uncal herniation, which occurs when brain is displaced across the tentorium from the supratentorial to infratentorial compartment. The uncus (anterior medial temporal gyrus) moves into the tentorial opening just anterior and adjacent to the midbrain. This causes compression of the ipsilateral third nerve with subsequent enlargement of the ipsilateral pupil. Coma is caused by compression of the midbrain against the opposite 
tentorial edge. Lateral displacement of the midbrain may also cause compression of the opposite cerebral peduncle causing a contralateral hemiparesis and Babinski sign. Central transtentorial herniation causes a symmetric displacement of the thalamic structures through the tentorial opening, compressing the midbrain. Miotic pupils and decreased alertness occur as opposed to enlargement of a single pupil with uncal herniation. As both central and uncal herniation progress, there is a similar progression of clinical signs with progressive dysfunction of the midbrain, pons, and finally, the medulla. Transfalcical herniation occurs when cingulate gyrus is displaced under the falx and across the midline. Foraminal herniation occurs when the cerebellar tonsils are forced into the foramen magnum and results in rapid death due to compression of the respiratory center. 
VI-87. The answer is C. (Chap. 328)  The coma in this patient is caused by drug intoxication, most 
likely tricyclic antidepressant overdose. Coma is commonly caused by drug intoxications and compounded by the resulting metabolic derangements. Because the patient is unresponsive, it is not possible to obtain a medical history, but family members and friends should be queried to assist with determining a possible cause. This patient has had recent depression, which could potentially indicate use of antidepressant medications and also increased suicide risk. Tricyclic antidepressants exert an anticholinergic effect. Common symptoms include an alerted level of consciousness, cardiac conduction abnormalities, arrhythmias, and evidence of anticholinergic activity including elevated temperature, flushing, and dilated pupils. If cardiac conduction delays are present, sodium bicarbonate should be given. Other supportive care includes use of intravenous fluids and management of agitation. 
VI-88. The answer is E. (Chap. 328)  Brain death refers to the irreversible loss of all cerebral and 
brainstem function. Cardiac activity is preserved, and respiration is maintained only by artificial means. In Western society, brain death is considered equivalent to death, and the respirator can be disconnected to allow cardiac death to occur. Careful examination of a patient needs to be performed to assess when brain death has occurred. At the time of examination, the patient needs to be normothermic and have been without treatment with sedative medications for at least 6–24 hours. Patients should also be maintaining a systolic blood pressure >100 mmHg and be euvolemic. Ideal criteria are simple, can be assessed at the bedside, and should have no chance of diagnostic error. Three essential elements of brain death include: 
1. Widespread cortical destruction identified by coma and unresponsiveness to all stimuli. 2. Global brainstem damage evidenced by absent pupillary light reflexes and loss of 
oculovestibular and corneal reflexes 
3. Loss of medullary function with complete and irreversible apnea 
The pupils are usually mid-sized, but can be enlarged. However, they should not be miotic. Deep tendon reflexes may be present, and Babinski response is usually absent or flexor. The apnea test is performed by preoxygenating a patient with 100% FiO2 for up to 10 minutes, with oxygen delivered via transtracheal cannula throughout the test. The patient remains off the ventilator for 8–10 minutes, and signs of respiration are observed. At the end of the test, an arterial blood gas is performed to demonstrate that PaCO2 has risen to 50–60 mmHg. Apnea is confirmed if there is no evidence of respiration when the PaCO2 has risen to a level that should have stimulated respiration. The apnea test should be terminated if the patient develops cardiovascular instability. 
respiration. The apnea test should be terminated if the patient develops cardiovascular instability. Other ancillary tests are sometimes performed in patients who cannot undergo clinical testing of brain death. Examples of scenarios in which ancillary tests may be useful include patients who are hemodynamically unstable, patients with diseases causing baseline carbon dioxide retention, and in the presence of prior sedation or neuromuscular blocking agents. The purpose of ancillary testing is to demonstrate lack of cerebral blood flow, and ancillary testing can include radionuclide brain imaging, cerebral angiography, and/or transcranial Doppler measurements. 
VI-89. The answer is B. (Chap. 330)  Monitoring intracranial pressure (ICP) is an important tool in the 
care of selected critically ill patients due to neurologic injury or disease. ICP can be monitored by ventriculostomy, intraparenchymal transducer, epidural catheter, or subarachnoid catheters. 
Epidural or subarachnoid catheters are less reliable and are less frequently used. Ventriculostomy is considered the “gold standard” for ICP monitoring because it offers the advantage of providing a means of cerebrospinal fluid drainage in the event of elevated ICP. In addition, ventriculostomy monitoring also provides greater accuracy because it has the ability to be recalibrated, whereas the intraparenchymal monitor does not. Patients who are most likely to be considered for ICP monitoring are those with severe primary neurologic disorders, including severe traumatic brain injury (Glasgow Coma Scale ≤8), large tissue shifts from supratentorial ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, intraventricular hemorrhage, or posterior fossa stroke. Individuals with fulminant hepatic failure are also at risk for severe cerebral edema leading to herniation. ICP monitoring is recommended for these individuals, although intraparenchymal monitoring is often more appropriate than ventriculostomy due to the presence of coagulopathy. These patients are at particularly high risk of bleeding. In addition, individuals with diffuse cerebral edema, such as in fulminant hepatic failure, typically have small ventricles leading to difficulty in placement. 
VI-90. The answer is D. (Chap. 330)  The primary goal of ICP monitoring in patients with severe 
neurologic injury and elevated ICP is to maintain adequate cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). CPP is calculated as mean arterial pressure minus the ICP, and the goal CPP is ≥60 mmHg. Normal ICP is <20 mmHg. Thus, this patient is showing evidence of marked elevations in ICP with a CPP of 58 mmHg. When ICP remains elevated for more than 5 minutes, therapy should be undertaken to decrease the ICP. It is important to consider the underlying cause of ICP in an individual when determining treatment plan. In patients with hydrocephalus or subarachnoid hemorrhage, draining cerebrospinal fluid via the ventriculostomy will decrease the ICP. In patients with more diffuse cerebral edema from head trauma or stroke, medical approaches are more appropriate. This patient has hydrocephalus due to subarachnoid bleeding. Therefore, the first line of treatment should be to drain the ventriculostomy. If this fails to adequately alleviate the elevations in ICP, other treatment modalities including osmolar therapy, sedation, hyperventilation, or vasopressors to increase mean arterial pressure can be considered. There are two osmolar therapies that are frequently used: mannitol or 23.4% saline bolus. Deep sedation may be required, and a variety of agents may be used. Neuromuscular blockade may be used as well. Hyperventilation to drop the PaCO2 to 30–35 mmHg works acutely to drop the ICP, but the effect is limited. Vasopressors can be considered to increase the mean arterial pressure and thus ensure an improved CPP. Glucocorticoids are best used in individuals with vasogenic edema from tumor or abscess. In those with refractory elevations in ICP, decompressive craniectomy, high-dose barbiturate therapy, or hypothermia may also be employed. 
VI-91. The answer is C. (Chap. 330)  Therapeutic hypothermia refers to the purposeful induction of 
hypothermia to temperatures of 32–34°C, and it is primarily used following cardiac arrest. The rationale for use of therapeutic hypothermia is to provide a neuroprotective effect to limit neuronal cell injury and death following a substantial hypoxic insult. Initially, two trials suggested that use of therapeutic hypothermia would improve functional outcomes in patients who remained comatose after resuscitation from cardiac arrest. Subsequent trials showed no significant difference in neurologic outcomes if the temperature was maintained at 32°C or 36°C so long as development of fever was prevented. Treatment guidelines currently support therapeutic hypothermia for 12–24 hours when the initial rhythm was ventricular fibrillation. 
therapeutic hypothermia for 12–24 hours when the initial rhythm was ventricular fibrillation. While cerebral edema is a common complication of cardiac arrest and a leading cause of death, there is no recommendation to perform head imaging prior to initiating therapeutic hypothermia. Complications of therapeutic hypothermia include coagulopathy and increased risk of infection. 
VI-92. The answer is B. (Chap. 330)  Critical illness polyneuropathy is the most common peripheral 
nervous system complication of critical illness. Prior studies have shown that as many as 70% of individuals hospitalized in intensive care units with sepsis develop critical illness polyneuropathy. The clinical presentation of critical illness polyneuropathy is diffuse weakness with decreased deep tendon reflexes and distal sensory loss. On electrophysiologic testing, a diffuse, symmetric distal axonal sensorimotor neuropathy is seen. The cause of critical illness 
polyneuropathy is not known but is postulated to be due to circulating inflammatory cytokines that are commonly elevated is sepsis and other critical illness. Risk factors for development of the syndrome include sepsis, prolonged critical illness, and multiorgan system failure. In severe cases, critical illness polyneuropathy can lead to decreased respiratory muscle strength and can contribute to prolonged ventilator dependence. Treatment is supportive, and recovery is spontaneous, although it may take weeks to months for full recovery. Critical illness myopathy is a term used to describe several discrete muscular disorders in critically ill individuals. It is less common than critical illness polyneuropathy and may have elevated levels of serum creatine kinase. As disease progresses, electromyography can show abnormal spontaneous activity. Muscle biopsy is variable, with results ranging from type II atrophy to panfascicular necrosis. This patient does not show evidence of fibroproliferative progression of acute respiratory distress syndrome as the chest radiograph shows clearing of infiltrates. The patient also requires minimal ventilatory support with good tidal volumes. Guillain-Barré syndrome is an acute demyelinating polyneuropathy that presents as a cause of respiratory failure and is not present in this case. ICU delirium is a common complication of ICU care but should not result in low tidal volumes when ventilatory support is decreased. 
VI-93 and VI-94.  The answers are E and E, respectively. (Chap. 330)  Nontraumatic subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (SAH) occurs most commonly following rupture of a saccular, or berry, aneurysm. Autopsy and angiography studies have identified aneurysms in 2% of the adult population, affecting 4 million individuals. The yearly incidence of SAH due to aneurysmal rupture is 20,000–30,000 cases. Many patients die before reaching the hospital. If a patient survives to hospital admission, the 28-day mortality rate is 45%. More than half of individuals who survive have significant neurologic injury with lingering manifestations. The patient with SAH should be admitted to a critical care unit with expertise in managing SAH. Initial treatment of SAH includes early aneurysmal repair while managing intracranial hypertension. Repair of the aneurysm may be accomplished via neurosurgical clipping or endovascular coiling of the aneurysm. Generally coiling has shown improved functional outcomes in those undergoing endovascular procedures. Medical management is complex. Intracranial hypertension is common and frequently requires management with ventriculostomy. Medical management of elevated intracranial pressures is also often required. If a patient survives the initial period following SAH, the patient is vulnerable to several causes of delayed neurologic deficits that typically present within 1–2 weeks after the event. Vasospasm refers to the narrowing of the arteries at the base of the brain following SAH and is the most common cause of delayed morbidity and mortality in SAH. Signs of ischemic injury and change in neurologic exam herald the development of vasospasm. Nimodipine is typically prescribed at a dose of 60 mg every 4 hours upon admission to the ICU to attempt to prevent vasospasm. Vasospasm can be detected by x-ray angiography or transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Surveillance for vasospasm is often performed via transcranial Doppler ultrasound on a daily or every-other-day basis. In addition to nimodipine, management of acute vasospasm includes raising cerebral perfusion pressure and volume expansion. Phenylephrine and norepinephrine are the most frequently used vasopressors. If vasospasm is refractory to these treatments, intra-arterial vasodilators and/or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty should be considered. Other causes of delayed neurologic deficits following SAH include rerupture of the aneurysm, hydrocephalus, and hyponatremia. The 
following SAH include rerupture of the aneurysm, hydrocephalus, and hyponatremia. The incidence of rerupture of an aneurysm is ~30% in the first month after presentation, with a peak incidence within the first 7 days. Mortality associated with rerupture is 60%. Early endovascular coiling or surgical clipping of the aneurysm decreases the incidence of rerupture. Hydrocephalus can occur acutely or subacutely after SAH. Subacute development of hydrocephalus is more common and presents over a few days or weeks with progressive drowsiness, incontinence, and slowed mentation. The patient in this scenario had a CT scan that did not show increasing blood, cerebral edema, or development of hydrocephalus. Hyponatremia occurs following SAH due to natriuresis and volume depletion. Electrolytes are typically assessed at least twice daily following SAH as hyponatremia can develop fairly acutely. 
VI-95 and VI-96.  The answers are E and C, respectively. (Chap. 331)  This clinical scenario 
describes an individual with superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome, which is an oncologic 
emergency. Eighty-five percent of cases of SVC syndrome are caused by either small-cell or squamous cell cancer of the lung. Other causes of SVC syndrome include lymphoma, aortic aneurysm, thyromegaly, fibrosing mediastinitis, thrombosis, histoplasmosis, and Behcet syndrome. The typical clinical presentation is dyspnea, cough, and facial and neck swelling. Symptoms are worsened by lying flat or bending forward. As the swelling progresses, it can lead to glossal and laryngeal edema with symptoms of hoarseness and dysphagia. Other symptoms can include headaches, nasal congestion, pain, dizziness, and syncope. In rare cases, seizures can occur from cerebral edema, although this is more commonly associated with brain metastases. On physical examination, dilated neck veins with collateralization on the anterior chest wall are frequently seen. There is also facial and upper extremity edema associated with cyanosis. The diagnosis of SVC syndrome is a clinical diagnosis. A pleural effusion is seen in about 25% of cases, more commonly on the right. A chest CT would demonstrate decreased or absent contrast in the central veins with prominent collateral circulation and would help elucidate the cause. Most commonly, this would be mediastinal adenopathy or a large central tumor obstructing venous flow. The immediate treatment of SVC syndrome includes oxygen, elevation of the head of the bed, and administration of diuretics in combination with a low-sodium diet. Conservative treatment alone often provides adequate relief of symptoms and allows determination of the underlying cause of the obstruction. In this case, this would include histologic confirmation of cell type of the tumor to provide more definitive therapy. Radiation therapy is the most common treatment modality and can be used in an emergent situation if conservative treatment fails to provide relief to the patient. 
VI-97. The answer is A. (Chap. 331)  This patient presents with symptoms of spinal cord compression 
in the setting of known stage IV breast cancer. This represents an oncologic emergency as only 10% of patients presenting with paraplegia regain the ability to walk. Most commonly, patients develop symptoms of localized back pain and tenderness days to months before developing paraplegia. The pain is worsened by movement, cough, or sneezing. In contrast to radicular pain, the pain related to spinal cord metastases is worse with lying down. Patients presenting with back pain alone should have a careful examination to attempt to localize the lesion prior to development of more severe neurologic symptoms. In this patient with paraplegia, there is a definitive level at which sensation is diminished. This level is typically one to two vertebrae below the site of compression. Other findings include spasticity, weakness, and increased deep tendon reflexes. In those with autonomic dysfunction, bowel and bladder incontinence will occur with decreased anal tone, absence of the anal wink and bulbocavernosus reflexes, and bladder distention. The most important initial step is the administration of high-dose intravenous corticosteroids to minimize associated swelling around the lesion and prevent paraplegia while allowing further evaluation and treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should be performed of the entire spinal cord to evaluate for other metastatic disease that may require therapy. Although a brain MRI may be indicated in the future to evaluate for brain metastases, it is not required in the initial evaluation because the bilateral nature of the patient’s symptoms and sensory level clearly indicate the spinal cord as the site of the injury. Once an MRI is performed, a definitive treatment plan can be made. Most commonly, radiation therapy is used with or without surgical decompression. 
VI-98 and VI-99.  The answers are B and E, respectively. (Chap. 331)  Tumor lysis syndrome occurs 
most commonly in individuals undergoing chemotherapy for rapidly proliferating malignancies, including acute leukemias and Burkitt lymphoma. In rare instances, it can be seen in chronic lymphoma or solid tumors. As the chemotherapeutic agents act on these cells, there is massive tumor lysis that results in release of intracellular ions and nucleic acids. This leads to a characteristic metabolic syndrome of hyperuricemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperkalemia, and hypocalcemia. Acute kidney injury is frequent and can lead to renal failure requiring hemodialysis if uric acid crystallizes within the renal tubules. Lactic acidosis and dehydration increase the risk of acute kidney injury. Hyperphosphatemia occurs due to the release of intracellular phosphate ions and causes a reciprocal reduction in serum calcium. This hypocalcemia can be profound, leading to neuromuscular irritability and tetany. Hyperkalemia can become rapidly life-threatening and cause ventricular arrhythmia. Knowing the 
characteristics of tumor lysis syndrome, one can attempt to prevent the known complications from occurring. It is important to monitor serum electrolytes frequently during treatment. Laboratory studies should be obtained no less than three times daily, but more frequent monitoring is often needed. Allopurinol should be administered prophylactically at high doses. If allopurinol fails to control uric acid to less than 8 mg/dL, rasburicase, a recombinant urate oxidase, can be added at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg. Throughout this period, the patient should be well hydrated with alkalinization of the urine to a pH of greater than 7.0. This is accomplished by 
administration of intravenous normal or half-normal saline at a dose of 3000 mL/m2 daily with sodium bicarbonate. Prophylactic hemodialysis is not performed unless there is underlying renal failure prior to starting chemotherapy. 
