title : Benefits for People with Disabilities#1
document : 
Benefits for People with Disabilities 
Disability Home How To Apply Disability Starter Kits Benefits Planner Forms Publications Non - English Languages Direct Deposit Ticket to Work / Work Incentives Representative Payment Program Reporting Your Income Medicare / Medicaid Services Insure Kids Now Social Security Handbook Policy / Research Program / Actuarial Data Laws & Legislation Hearings & Appeals SSA Advisory Board Factsand Figures Frequently Asked Questions The Social Security and Supplemental Security Income disabilityprograms are the largest of several Federal programs that provideassistance to people with disabilities. While these two programsare different in many ways , both are administered by the SocialSecurity Administration and only individuals who have a disabilityand meet medical criteria may qualify for benefits under eitherprogram. Social Security DisabilityInsurancepays benefits to you and certain members of your familyif you are " insured, " meaning that you worked long enoughand paid Social Security taxes. Supplemental Security Incomepays benefits based on financial need. When you apply for either program , we will collect medical andother information from you and make a decision about whetheror not you meet Social Security's definition of disability. Use the Benefits Eligibility Screening Toolto find out which programs may be able to pay you benefits. If your application has recently been denied , the Internet Appeal is a starting point to request a review of our decision about your eligibility for disability benefits. If your application is denied for : Medical reasons , you can complete and submit the required Appeal Request and Appeal Disability Report online. The disability report asks you for updated information about your medical condition and any treatment, tests or doctor visits since we made our decision. Non - medical reasons , you should contact your local Social Security Office to request the review. You also may call our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213, to request an appeal. People who are deaf or hard of hearing can call our toll - free TTY number , 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. Report fraud , wasteand abuse 
More Information 
Disability Determination Process How We Decide If You Are Disabled Compassionate Allowances We Need About Your Work And Education Information Benefits For Children With DisabilitiesProfessional RelationsGreen Book - Consultative Examinations: Guide For Health ProfessionalsBlue Book - Disability Evaluation Under Social Security Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Fact Sheet Neurological Teleconference Summary Disability Claims Process Video Series 

title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Online Calculator (WEP Version)#1
document : 
Benefits Planner: Retirement 

Online Calculator (WEP Version) 
The calculator shown below allows you to estimate your Social Security benefit. However , for the most accurate estimates , use the Detailed Calculator. You need to enter all your past earnings, which are shown on your online. Please Note: The Online Calculator is updated periodically * with new benefit increases and other benefit amounts. Therefore , it is likely that your benefit estimates in the future will differ from those calculated today. The Online Calculator works on PCs and Macs with Javascript enabled. Some browsers may not allow you to print the table below. Note: If your birthday is on January 1st , we figure your benefit as if your birthday was in the previous year. If you qualify for benefits as a Survivor , your full retirement age for survivors benefits may be different. 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#13
document : 
Original Card for a Noncitizen Child 
In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from the Department of Homeland Security DHS can apply for a Social Security number. If your child does not have permission to work but needs a Social Security number for other purposes , see " If your child does not have permission to work " for further information. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. Adoption In some cases , we can assign your adopted child a number before the adoption is complete , but you may want to wait. Then , you can apply for the number using your child's new name. If you want to claim your child for tax purposes while the adoption is still pending , contact the Internal Revenue Service for Form W-7A, Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. For more information, see Social Security Numbers For Children (Publication No. 05-10023). 
What original documents do I need? 
Immigration Status To prove your child's U.S. immigration status , you must show us your child's current U.S. immigration document, such as : I-551 Lawful Permanent Resident Card, Machine Readable Immigrant Visa ; I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit ; or I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport. If your child is an F-1 or M-1 student , we must see your child's I-20 Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status. If your child is a J-1 or J-2 exchange visitor , you must see your child's DS-2019 Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. Work Eligibility In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from DHS can apply for a Social Security number. For most foreign workers , we only need to see an I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport showing a class of admission permitting work. Some foreign workers must show their I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit from DHS. Student : If you are an F-1 student and eligible to work on campus , you must provide a letter from your designated school official that : Identifies you ; Confirms your current school status ; and Identifies your employer and the type of work you are, or will be, doing. We also need to see evidence of that employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter from your employer. Your supervisor must sign and date the letter. The letter must describe : Your job; Your employment start date ; The number of hours you are, or will be, working ; and Your supervisor's name and telephone number. If you are an F-1 student authorized to work in curricular practical training CPT , you must provide us your Form I-20 with the employment page completed and signed by your designated school official. If you are an F-1 student and have a work permit I-766 from DHS , you must present it. If you are a J-1 student, student intern or international visitor , you must provide a letter from your sponsor. The letter should be on sponsor letterhead with an original signature that authorizes your employment. If your child does not have permission to work : Lawfully admitted noncitizens can get many benefits and services without a Social Security number. You do not need a number to conduct business with a bank, register for school, apply for educational tests, obtain private health insurance, apply for school lunch programs or apply for subsidized housing. You cannot get a Social Security number for the sole purpose of obtaining a driver's license. Government benefits or services : If your child does not have permission to work , the child may apply for a Social Security number only if : A federal law requires your child to provide a Social Security number to get a particular benefit or service ; or A state or local law requires you to provide your Social Security number to get general assistance benefits for which you already have qualified. If your child needs a number to meet these state or local requirements , you must bring us a letter from the government agency. It must be on letterhead stationery no form letters or photocopies and : Specifically identify your child as the applicant ; Cite the law requiring your child to have a Social Security number ; Indicate that your child meets all the agency's requirements, except having the number ; and Contain an agency contact name and telephone number. Taxes: If you need a number for your child for tax purposes and your child is not authorized to work in the United States , you can apply for an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number for your child from the Internal Revenue Service IRS. Visit IRS in person or call the IRS toll - free number , 1 - 800-TAXFORM 1 - 800 - 829 - 3676, and request Form W-7A Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. If you are assigned a number for non - work purposes , you cannot use it to work. If you use it to work , we will inform DHS. Age You must present your child's foreign birth certificate if you have it or can get it within 10 days. If not , we will consider other documents such as your child's passport or a document issued by DHS as evidence of your child's age. Anyone age 12 or older requesting an original Social Security number must appear in person for an interview. We will ask for evidence to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. If your child lived outside the United States for an extended period , a current or previous passport , school and/or employment records , and any other record that would show long - term residence outside the United States could be used to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. Identity Your child : Social Security will ask to see your child's current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. If your child does not have a current DHS document , we can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. If you are not a U.S. citizen , Social Security will ask to see a current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use a DHS work permit as proof of both immigration status and identity. However , you must provide at least two separate documents. 

title : Direct Deposit | Social Security Administration#2
document : 
Set Up or Change Your Direct Deposit of Benefit Payment 
Do you want to set up or change the direct deposit of your benefit payment? We are constantly expandingand improving our online services, including the ability to set up or change your direct depositinformation. If you already receive Social Security or Supplemental Security Income SSI benefitsand you have a bank account, simply log in to or create your personal and secure my Social Security account. 
What is Direct Deposit? 
Direct deposit is a simple, safe, and secure way to get benefits. If you need us to send your payment to abank or credit union account , have all of the following information ready when you apply. Social Security number Bank routing transit number Account type checking or savings Account number How to Set Up or Change Direct Deposit of Benefit Payment Online Log in to your account. Sign in and Select the blue Benefits & Payment Details link on the right side of the screen. Scroll down and select the Update Direct Deposit button, and choose if you are the owner or co - ownerof the bank account. Enter your bank account information and select Next. Review and verify your banking information and select Submit then select Done. You can also decide when your change will take effect, by simply using the My Profile tab within mySocial Security. Don't have a my Social Security Account? Creating a free my Social Security account takes less than 10 minutes, lets you set up or change your direct deposit and gives you access to many other online services. 
Additional information related to this service 
As of March 1 , 2013 , you are required to receive your payments electronically. If you applied for benefitsbefore that date and did not sign up for electronic payments at that time , we strongly urge you to do sonow. For more information regarding switching to an electronic payment if you don t have a bank account , visit Treasury s Go Direct website or call the helpline at 1 - 800 - 333 - 1795. 
Still have questions? 
If you have questions or need help understanding how to set up or change direct deposit online , call ourtoll - free number at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 or visit your Social Security office. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , call our toll - free TTY number , 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778, between7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Other Things to Consider | Social Security Administration#2
document : 
Other Things to Consider 
What Is The Best Age To Start Your Benefits? The answer is that there is no one " best age " for everyone and, ultimately, it is your choice. You should make an informed decision about when to apply for benefits based on your individual and family circumstances. Your monthly benefit amount can differ substantially based on the age when you start receiving benefits. If you decide to start benefits : before your full retirement age , your benefit will be smaller but you will receive it for a longer period of time. at your full retirement age or later , you will receive a larger monthly benefit for a shorter period of time. The amount you receive when you first get benefits sets the base for the amount you will receive for the rest of your life. You may want to consider the following when you make that decision : If you plan to continue working , there are limits on how much you can earn each year between age 62 and full retirement age and still get all your benefits. Depending on the amount of your benefit and your earnings for the year , you may have to give up some of your benefits. If your earnings will be high , you may decide to wait until full retirement age to start your benefits. Once you reach full retirement age , there is no limit on how much you can earn. Reminders : After you reach full retirement age , we recalculate your benefit amount to give you credit for any months in which you did not receive a benefit because of your earnings. When additional earnings appear on your record , we check whether they will increase your monthly benefit. If they do , we will send you a letter telling you your new benefit amount. You can apply for just Medicare at age 65 and start receiving retirement benefits later. When you think about retirement , be sure to plan for the long term. A man who turned 65 in 2014 can expect to live about another 19.3 years. A woman who turned 65 the same year can expect to live about another 21.6 years. And those are just averages. About one out of every four 65-year - olds today will live past age 90. One out of 10 will live past age 95. How long do you expect to live? Did your parents and grandparents all live into their 80s or 90s? If the answer is yes, and you have every reason to believe you will too , you may want to delay starting your benefits until full retirement age or later. If they didn't , you may choose to start receiving retirement benefits earlier. If you come from a long - lived family , you may need the extra money more in later years, particularly if you may outlive pensions or annuities with limits on how long they are paid. If you are not in good health , you may decide to start your benefits earlier. If you stop working , not only will you lose your paycheck , but you may also lose valuable employer provided health insurance. Although there are exceptions , most people will not be covered by Medicare until they reach age 65. Your employer should be able to tell you if you will have retiree health benefits or if you can temporarily extend your health insurance coverage after you retire. Also , if you are married and your spouse is employed , you may be able to switch to their health insurance. 
Should I apply for Medicare? 
Remember , Medicare usually starts when you reach age 65. If you decide to delay starting your benefits , be sure to contact Social Security about 3 months before you turn age 65 to check about applying for Medicare. Even if you have health insurance through a current or former employer or as part of yourseverance package , you should still check to see whether you need to sign up for Medicare. Some health insurance plans change automatically at age 65. If you need to sign up for Medicare but you do not , your Medicare coverage may be delayed and cost more. Please read the general and special enrollment period information on page 12 of our Medicare booklet to find out what may happen if you delay. If you are eligible on another record , you may have additional options : If you qualify for benefits as a widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse on another record , you may choose to apply for survivors benefits now and delay your retirement benefit until later. If you delay receiving your retirement benefit until your full retirement age or later , your retirement benefit will be higher. If you were born before January 2 , 1954 and have already reached your full retirement age, and are eligible for a spouse s or divorced - spouse s benefit and your own retirement benefit , you can choose to receive only the spouse s benefit and delay receiving your retirement benefit until a later date. If your birthday is January 2 , 1954 or later , the option to take only one benefit at full retirement age no longer exists. If you file for one benefit , you will be effectively filing for all retirement or spousal benefits. If you don't need your benefits immediately , you may decide to : Wait beyond full retirement age to receive delayed retirement credits. Reminder: If you are within 4 months of age 65, or older, and you have health insurance through an employer or former employer , you should check to see whether you need to sign up for Medicare. Some health insurance plans change automatically at age 65. Choose early retirement and increase the value of your benefits by investing them instead of spending them. Reminder: If you're receiving early retirement from your employer , keep in mind that some company pensions include a Social Security - equivalent supplement that stops automatically at age 62. The supplement stops because they assume you will apply for your retirement benefits at age 62. If your spouse or minor or disabled children will also qualify for benefits from your record , the value of their benefits, added to your own, may help you decide if taking your benefits sooner is your best choice. If your spouse or ex - spouse s date of birth is January 2 , 1954 or later and they become eligible to receive a higher benefit on your record while receiving retirement benefits , they can no longer delay filing for the additional benefit. If your spouse files for one benefit , they will be effectively filing for all retirement or spousal benefits. However , when you start your retirement benefits also affects the amount your surviving spouse may receive. If you start your benefits : before full retirement age , we cannot pay your surviving spouse the full benefit amount from your record. Generally , if you were receiving reduced benefits , we base the survivors benefit on that amount. after full retirement age , your surviving spouse may receive your full benefit amount plus any accumulated delayed retirement credits. Accidents or unexpected changes in your circumstances can't be ruled out, of course , so your final decision may be based on your " best guess " about your future. 

title : Appeal A Decision | Social Security Administration#1
document : 
Appeal A Decision 
If you were recently denied Social Security benefits or Supplemental Security Income SSI , you may request an appeal. Generally , you have 60 days after you receive the notice of our decision to ask for any type of appeal. There are four levels of appeal : Reconsideration , Hearing by an administrative law judge , Review by the Appeals Council , and Federal Court review Please see the bottom of page for information on the Federal Court Review Process. You can request an appeal online for a reconsideration, a hearing by an administrative law judge, and a review by the Appeals Council, even if you live outside of the United States. When we made the first determination on your claim , we sent you a letter explaining our determination. This letter contains guidance on what level of appeal you should select. To learn more about each appeal level , visit Information About Social Security's Hearings and Appeals Process. 
Request a Reconsideration Online for a Medical Determination 
If your disability claim was recently denied for medical reasons , you can request an appeal online. A reconsideration is a complete review of your claim by someone who did not take part in the first determination. We will look at all the evidence submitted used in the original determination, plus any new evidence. Request Medical ReconsiderationContinue Request for Medical Reconsideration You Started 
Request a Reconsideration Online for a Non-Medical Determination 
If you received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements, you can request a non - medical appeal online. Request Non - Medical Reconsideration 
Check the Status of Your Reconsideration 
Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI Reconsideration using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account 
Request a Hearing for a Medical Determination Online 
A hearing is conducted by an administrative law judge who had no part in the original determination or the reconsideration of your case. The hearing is usually held within 75 miles of your home. If you disagree with the determination we made at the reconsideration level , you may request a hearing online. You Started Request Medical HearingContinue Medical Hearing Request 
Request a Hearing for a Non-Medical Determination Online 
If you requested a reconsideration and received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied benefits for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements , you can request a non - medical hearing online. Request Non - Medical Hearing 
Check the Status of Your Hearing 
Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI hearing using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account 
Request an Appeals Council review of a decision or dismissal made by an administrative law judge 
The Appeals Council looks at all requests for review , but it may deny a request if it believes the hearing decision was supported and in accordance with social security law and regulations. If the Appeals Council decides to review your case , it will either decide your case itself or return it to an administrative law judge for further review. If you disagree with the hearing decision , you may request a review by Social Security s Appeals Council online. Request Appeals Council Review If you disagree with the Appeals Council's decision, or if the Appeals Council decides not to review your case , you can file a civil suit in a federal district court. This is the last level of the appeals process. Currently , this process is not available online. To learn more about this process , visit Federal Court Review Process. You can also file an appeal by calling our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 or contacting your local Social Security office. 

title : Explore The Benefits You May Be Due#1
document : 
Explore the Benefits You May Be Due 

You, or Your Family Members, May Be Eligible for Increased Benefits 
Our mission is to deliver Social Security services that meet the changing needs of the public. It's not unusual for a benefit recipient's circumstances to change after they apply or became eligible for benefits. If you, or a family member, receive Social Security or Supplemental Security Income SSI , certain life changes may affect eligibility for an increase in your federal benefits. For example , if your spouse or ex - spouse dies , you may become eligible for a higher Social Security benefit. To find out if you, or a family member, might be eligible for a benefit based on another person s work, or a higher benefit based on your own work , see the information about benefits on the Social Security website. You can also use the Benefit Eligibility Screening Tool BEST to find out if you could get benefits that Social Security administers. Based on your answers to questions , this tool will list benefits for which you might be eligible and tell you more information about how to qualify and apply. The questions and answers below are about a few of the life changes that could possibly increase your benefits. If your spouse or ex - spouse has died , you may be eligible for a higher survivor benefit based on his or her work. The death of an ex - spouse may allow you to be eligible for a higher survivor benefit even if you are already receiving a survivor benefit on another spouse. If you are at least age 65 , you may be eligible for cash benefits on your own record. If you are full retirement age or older , you can work and receive your monthly Social Security benefits, no matter how much you earn. Please review this publication for more information. If your child had enough work credits and was providing at least half of your support , you may be eligible for a higher parent's benefit based on his or her work. If you have worked , you may be eligible for a higher retirement benefit based on your own work. If you have worked , you may be eligible for a higher disability benefit based on your own work. If you are at least 62 years old and unmarried , you may be eligible for a benefit based on a former spouse s work if that marriage lasted 10 years or more. You may be eligible for spouse's benefits if you have in your care a child who is under age 16 or disabled prior to age 22. Your child may be eligible for benefits based on your work. If you served in the U.S. military , you may be eligible for benefits through the Veterans Administration. Visit this link for more information: http://www.va.gov/ If you are unmarried and under age 18 or were disabled prior to age 22, and your parent is deceased or receiving Social Security benefits , you may be eligible for child benefits based on your parent s work. You may be able to get additional income through the Supplemental Security Income program, which helps seniors and the disabled who have limited income and financial resources. IMPORTANT : If you are receiving benefits , there are certain life events that you are required to report. For a complete list , please select the publication below that applies to the type of benefits you receive. NOTE : Failure to report a change may result in an overpayment. What You Need To Know When You Get Retirement Or Survivors Benefits 7 - 13 What You Need To Know When You Get Social Security Disability Benefits 11 - 18 What You Need To Know When You Get Supplemental Security Income SSI 7 - 19 
Contacting Social Security 
Our website is a valuable resource for information about all of Social Security's programs. There are a number of things you can do online. In addition to using our website , you can call us toll - free at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. We treat all calls confidentially. We can answer specific questions from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday. Generally , you ll have a shorter wait time if you call during the week after Tuesday. We can provide information by automated phone service 24 hours a day. You can use our automated response system to tell us a new address or request a replacement Medicare card. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you may call our TTY number , 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. We also want to make sure you receive accurate and courteous service. That is why we have a second Social Security representative monitor some telephone calls. 
Related Information 
Retirement Planner Disability Planner Survivors' Planner 

title : Retirement Estimator | Social Security Administration#1
document : 
Retirement Estimator 

How the Retirement Estimator Works 
The Retirement Estimator gives estimates based on your actual Social Security earnings record. Please keep in mind that these are just estimates. Estimate Your Retirement Benefits We can t provide your actual benefit amount until you apply for benefits. And that amount may differ from the estimates provided because : Your earnings may increase or decrease in the future. After you start receiving benefits , they will be adjusted for cost - of - living increases. Your estimated benefits are based on current law. The law governing benefit amounts may change because, by 2035, the combined trust fund reserves are projected to become depleted one year later than projected last year. Payroll taxes collected will be enough to pay only about 80 cents for each dollar of scheduled benefits. Your benefit amount may be affected by military service, railroad employment or pensions earned through work on which you did not pay Social Security tax. 
Who Can Use the Retirement Estimator 
You can use the Retirement Estimator if : You have enough Social Security credits at this time to qualify for benefits and You are not : Currently receiving benefits on your own Social Security record ; Waiting for a decision about your application for benefits or Medicare ; Age 62 or older and receiving benefits on another Social Security record ; or Eligible for a Pension Based on Work Not Covered By Social Security. If you are currently receiving only Medicare benefits , you can still get an estimate. For more information go to this link for our publication Retirement Information For Medicare Beneficiaries. If you cannot use the Retirement Estimator or you want a survivors or disability benefit estimate , please use one of our other benefit Calculators. 
How Long Can You Stay On Each Page? 
For security reasons , there are time limits for viewing each page. You will receive a warning after 25 minutes without doing anything , and you will be able to extend your time on the page. After the third warning on a page , you must move to another page. If you do not, your time will run out and your work on that page will be lost. 

title : Retirement Benefits | Social Security Administration#1
document : 
Retirement Benefits 

Apply for Retirement Benefits 
Social Security offers an online retirement application that you can complete in as little as 15 minutes. It's so easy. Better yet , you can apply from the comfort of your home or office at a time most convenient for you. There's no need to drive to a local Social Security office or wait for an appointment with a Social Security representative. In most cases , once your application is submitted electronically , you're done. Social Security will process your application and contact you by telephone or by mail if any further information is needed. Apply for Retirement Benefits Return to a Saved Application|Check Application Status If you prefer to complete your application in a language other than English , the online application will give you the option to schedule an appointment to apply for benefits in your preferred language. The online application is currently only available in English. 
Questions about our Social Security Retirement Benefits Application 

Who can apply for retirement benefits online? 
You can apply online for retirement benefits or benefits as a spouse if you : are at least 61 years and 8 months old ; Are not currently receiving benefits on your own Social Security record ; have not already applied for retirement benefits ; and want your benefits to start no more than 4 months in the future. We cannot process your application if you apply for benefits more than 4 months in advance. 
What about Medicare? 
If you already have Medicare , you can still use this application to apply for retirement benefits. If you don t have Medicare but are within 3 months of age 65 , you can use this application to apply for : both retirement and Medicare ; or just Medicare , if you aren't ready to receive retirement benefits yet. For more information , go to Medicare. 
What do I need to know before I apply? 
Before you apply for retirement benefits , there are certain Social Security " basics " you should know about : Your " full retirement age " -Depending on your date of birth , that may be between age 66 and 67. This could affect the amount of your benefits and when you want the benefits to start. When you can start benefits -You may start receiving benefits as early as age 62 or as late as age 70. Benefits are reduced for age -Your monthly benefits will be reduced if you start them any time before " full retirement age. " Working while you receive benefits -If you elect to receive benefits before you reach full retirement age , you should understand how continuing to work can affect your benefits. Delayed retirement credits -Delayed retirement credits may be added to your benefits if they start after your full retirement age. Life expectancy -Many of us will live much longer than the average retiree , and most women live longer than men. More than one in three 65 year olds today will live to age 90 , and more than one in seven will live to age 95. Social Security benefits, which last as long as you live, provide valuable protection against outliving savings and other sources of retirement income. Again , you ll want to choose a retirement age based on your circumstances so you ll have enough income when you need it. Please read Other Things to Consider for information about other things you should think about when you make your decision about when to begin your benefits. Some of the things you should think about before you decide include : how long you think you will receive benefits , your health and whether anyone else in your family can get benefits on your record. You can find out what documents and information you need to apply by reading our " Checklist for Online Medicare, Retirement, and Spouses Applications. " 
How do I use the online application? 
Select the " Apply for Retirement Benefits " button above. You ll be asked to create or sign in to your my Social Security account and then go through a series of screens that will ask you questions about yourself, your family, and your work. Fill out the online application. You can complete your application in a single session or start the application now and finish it sometime later. If you: get stuck on a question , you can skip it and go back later. When you get to the end of the application , we'll let you know if there are any questions you still need to answer. can't complete your online application because you need to look something up, or for any other reason, you can " Return to a Saved Application " later without losing the information you entered. You may not be able to use periods, commas, and other special characters when you answer some of the questions. If you use a character that a field cannot accept and you try to go to another page , you will get a message that tells you there is a problem and what caused it. Example : You cannot use a period as part of an address. If you type " 27 N. Main St. " instead of " 27 N Main St " in an address field , you will get a message when you try to go to the next page. After you completely fill out the application , we will ask you to confirm the truthfulness of the answers to the best of your knowledge, under penalty of perjury , and your response will be recorded. You can be held liable for intentionally providing false or misleading information. " Sign " the application electronically by clicking on the " Submit Now " button. It will appear on the screen after you have finished filling out the application. The only person who can " sign " the application is the person who is applying for benefits. A legal representative or person helping cannot sign the application. Helping Someone Apply Online. 
Why apply for retirement online? 
Using our online application has a number of benefits : You can avoid trips to your Social Security office. That saves you time and money. You can answer questions on your schedule. You don't have to complete the application the same day that you started it. You can start and stop the application without losing any of the information you entered. You will have a chance to correct mistakes. You can go back and make changes until you finish the application. You'll also be given a chance to review your answers and go back and make corrections before you submit the application. If you have trouble answering a question , you can find additional information in our [More Info] links. You don't need to mail your application. When you're finished , just click " Submit Now " to send your application to Social Security. You'll get a receipt for your online application. You can print the receipt and keep for your records. You can check the status of your online application. Your receipt includes a confirmation number you can use to check the status of your application. However , if you choose to apply for benefits more than two months in the future , you will not be able to check the status of your application until one month before you start receiving benefits. 
How long can I stay on each page? 
For security reasons , there are time limits for viewing each page. You will receive a warning after 25 minutes without doing anything , and you will be able to extend your time on the page. After the third warning , you must move to another page or your time will run out and your work on that page will be lost. 
What happens after I apply? 
Once we receive your application , we'll review it. After the review , we will contact you if we need more information or if we need to see your documents. We'll also let you know if ... you may be able to receive benefits on another person's record, such as your spouse. other family members may be able to receive benefits on your work record. When we have all of the necessary information and documents , we'll process your application and send you a letter about our decision in the mail. 
Other ways to apply for retirement benefits 
You can also apply : By phone - Call 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 7 AM to 7 PM Monday through Friday. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. 

title : Benefits Planner: Disability | Family Benefits | Social Security Administration#2
document : When you start receiving disability benefits , certain members of your family may also qualify for benefits on your record. Benefits may be paid to your : spouse; divorced spouse ; children; disabled child ; and adult child disabled before age 22. If any of your qualified family members apply for benefits , we will ask for their Social Security numbers and their birth certificates. If your spouse is applying for benefits , we may also ask for proof of marriage and dates of prior marriages, if applicable. 
Maximum Family Amount 
Each family member may be eligible for a monthly benefit of up to 50 percent of your disability benefit amount. However , there is a limit to the amount we can pay your family. The total depends on your benefit amount and the number of family members who also qualify on your record. The total varies , but generally the total amount you and your family can receive is between 150 and 180 percent of your disability benefit. If the sum of the benefits payable on your account is greater than the family limit , the benefits to the family members will be reduced proportionately. Your benefit will not be affected. 
Benefits For Your Spouse 
When benefits are payable to your spouse : Age 62 or older , unless he or she collects a higher Social Security benefit based on his or her earnings record. The spouse benefit amount will be permanently reduced by a percentage based on the number of months until his or her full retirement age. At any age if he or she is caring for your child under age 16 or disabled. Your spouse would receive these benefits until the child reaches age 16. At that time, the child's benefits continue , but your spouse's benefits stop unless he or she is old enough to receive retirement benefits age 62 or older or survivor benefits as a widow or widower age 60. 
If Your Spouse Also Worked Under Social Security 
If your spouse is eligible for retirement benefits on his or her own record , we will always pay that amount first. But if the spouse benefit that is payable on your record is a higher amount , he or she will get a combination of benefits that equals that higher amount. If your spouse will also receive a pension based on work not covered by Social Security, such as government or foreign work , his or her Social Security benefit on your record may be affected. 
Benefits For Your Divorced Spouse 
If you are divorced, even if you have remarried , your ex - spouse may qualify for benefits on your record. If your ex - spouse will also receive a pension based on work not covered by Social Security, such as government or foreign work, his or her Social Security benefit on your record may be affected. To qualify on your record , your ex - spouse must : have been married to you for at least 10 years ; be at least 62 years old ; be unmarried ; and not be eligible for an equal or higher benefit on his or her own Social Security record, or on someone else's Social Security record. 
Benefits For Your Children 
When you qualify for Social Security disability benefits , your children may also qualify to receive benefits on your record. Your eligible child can be your biological child, adopted child, or stepchild. A dependent grandchild may also qualify. To receive benefits , the child must be unmarried and be : under age 18 ; or 18 - 19 years old and a full - time student no higher than grade 12 ; or 18 or older and have a disability that started before age 22. Normally , benefits stop when children reach age 18 unless they are disabled. However , if the child is still a full - time student at a secondary or elementary school at age 18 , benefits will continue until the child graduates or until two months after the child becomes age 19, whichever is first. Find out more about Benefits For A Disabled Child. 
Publications 
Disability Benefits Benefits For Children What You Need To Know When You Get Social Security Disability Benefits Information for Government Employees Benefits For Children With Disabilities 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#15
document : 
Replacement Card for a Foreign Born U. S. Citizen Adult 
You can replace your Social Security card for free if it is lost or stolen. However , you may not need to get a replacement card. Knowing your Social Security number is what's important. You are limited to three 3 replacement cards in a year and 10 during your lifetime. Legal name changes do not count toward these limits. Also , you may not be affected by these limits if you can prove you need the card to prevent a significant hardship. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. You may be able to request your replacement Social Security card online. Our online service is a fast and secure way to get a replacement. If you are age 18 or older with a U.S. mailing address and have amySocial Securityaccount , you can apply for a replacement card online. For more information about creating my Social Security account and getting a replacement card online , visit our Social Security Number and Card website. 
What original documents do I need? 
Citizenship If you have not already established your U.S. citizenship with us , we need to see proof of U.S. citizenship. We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include : U.S. passport ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 ; Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561 ; Certificate of Report of Birth DS-1350 ; Consular Report of Birth Abroad FS-240, CRBA. Identity We can accept only certain documents as proof of identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use your U.S. passport as proof of both citizenship and identity. 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#7
document : 
Corrected Card for a U.S. Born Child 
If you legally change your child's name because of adoption, court order or any other reason , you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a corrected card. If your child is working , also tell your child's employer. If you do not tell us when your child's name changes , it may : Delay your tax refund or your child's refund ; and Prevent your child's wages from being posted correctly to your child's Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your child's future Social Security benefits. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. 
What original documents do I need? 
Citizenship If you have not already established your child's U.S. citizenship with us , we need to see proof of U.S. citizenship. We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include a U.S. birth certificate or U.S. passport. Important This documentation is only required if your child hasNOT already established citizenship with us. Name Change If you need to change the name on your child's Social Security card , you must show us proof of your child's legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove your child's legal name change include : Final adoption decree with the new name ; Court order approving the name change ; or Amended birth certificate with the new name. If the document you provide as evidence of your child's legal name change does not give us enough information to identify your child in our records or if you changed your child's name more than four years ago , you must show us an identity document in your child's prior name as shown in our records. We will accept an identity document in your child's old name that has expired. If you do not have an identity document in your child's prior name , we may accept an unexpired identity document in your child's new name, as long as we can properly establish your child's identity in our records. Identity Your child : We can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note Your child's new card will have the same number as your child's previous card, but will show a new name. We will mail your child's card as soon as we have all of your child's information and have verified your child's documents. 

title : Apply For A Child (Under Age 18) | Disability Benefits | SSA#2
document : 
To apply for a child... 
You will need to complete an Application for Supplemental Security Income SSI AND a Child Disability Report. The report collects information about the child's disabling condition and how it affects his / her ability to function. At this time , only the Child Disability Report can be completed online. Please contact us by phone or in person to schedule an appointment to complete the SSI application. We will help you in person or by phone. 
Steps to Apply 
REVIEW the Child Disability Starter Kit. This kit answers common questions about applying for Supplemental Security Income SSI benefits for children, and includes a worksheet that will help you gather the information you need. CONTACT Social Security right away to find out whether the income and resources of the parents and the child are within the allowed limits, and to start the SSI application process. FILL OUT the online Child Disability Report. At the end of the report , we will ask you to sign a form that gives the child's doctor permission to give us information about his / her disability. We need this information so that we can make a decision on the child's claim. If you do not want to do this report online or you need help , you can call us toll - free at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. If you are deaf or hard - of - hearing , call our toll - free TTY number , 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. Representatives are available Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. 

title : Manage Your Retirement Benefits | SSA#1
document : 
Manage Your Retirement Benefits 
Successfully filing for retirement benefits isn t the end of your Social Security journey. We have resources to save you time on important retirement tasks and keep you in control of your Social Security account benefits through a free my Social Security account. 
Sign Up For mySocial Security 
A free my Social Security account makes it easy to manage your information. Create An Account Jump to a topic on this page : Understand Your Benefits / Inform Us Of Changes / Use Our Resources And Services To Stay In Control / Keep Your Information Secure 
Understand Your Benefits 
Effectively managing your retirement benefits is an ongoing part of retired life. A solid foundation for this includes understanding what you re entitled to, staying up to date on program changes, and making sure we have your current information. 
Know What You're Entitled To 
Help ensure you get the retirement benefits you should by reviewing the basics like how we determine your benefit amount and who else in your family might be eligible. Visit our Learn About Retirement Benefits page to make sure you know the basics of retirement benefits. 
Stay Up To Date 
With SSA.gov , there are a few ways to stay in the know on the latest Social Security information : Subscribe to our Social Security Matters blog to hear from us on tips, tools, and updates on Social Security issues important to you. Check our annual Cost - of - Living Adjustments COLA updates and learn about any impact to your monthly benefit amount. Subscribe to our Email Digest for information to you on policy changes, agency news, and notifications on important events. Create your personal my Social Security account to receive important notices online through the Message Center. The Message Center is a secure, convenient portal where you can receive sensitive communications we don t send through email or text. 
Additional Information 
Explore The Benefits You May Be Due Benefits For Your Family 
FAQs 
What is a my Social Security online account and how do I get one? How do I sign up for Medicare? 
Inform Us Of Changes 
When change happens in your life , letting us know ensures your benefits and information is kept up to date. Remember to tell us whenever there s a change in your life circumstance that could affect your benefits. Common changes to notify us of : Moving. Getting married or divorced. Changing your name. Adopting a child. No longer caring for a child who receives benefits. If you are a non - citizen and your status changes. Start getting a pension from work not covered by Social Security. Leave the United States for more than 30 days. Become unable to manage your funds. Are convicted of a criminal offense. The beneficiary dies. If you already receive Social Security benefits , you can update much of your information online with your personal my Social Security account. If you need to make a change that cannot be done through my Social Security , you can contact us for additional support. 
Additional Information 
How Social Security Can Help You When A Family Member Dies 
FAQs 
How can I change my address? What should I do when someone dies? 
Use Our Resources And Services To Stay In Control 
There are many time - saving options available to you. Here are our most popular online services : Check your application status. Set up or change direct deposit. Get a proof of income letter. Get a Social Security 1099 SSA-1099 form. Request a replacement Social Security card. Opt out of certain mailed notices. Advanced Designation of Representative Payee. We continue to expand the services available online. Visit our online services page to see a complete list, including the newest services to help you manage your information. You can also search our comprehensive FAQs section for help with specific retirement issues. If you need help with managing your benefits and cannot find the answer or service above , visit our contact us page for other ways to get support. 
Keep Your Information Secure 
Identity theft affects millions of people each year and can cause serious financial and identity - related problems. Protect yourself by securing your personal information, taking the time to understand the threat of identity theft, and exercising caution. 
Protect Yourself From Fraud 
Social Security is diligently working at national, regional, and local levels to combat the fraud that undermines our mission to serve the American public. There are steps you can take to help protect your personal information : Do not routinely carry your Social Security card. Never say your Social Security number aloud in public. Beware of phishing scams emails, internet links, texts, and phone calls to trick you into revealing personal information. Create a my Social Security account to help you keep track of your records. Visit If You Want Extra Security to learn about extra verification steps we can add to your account. 
Report Suspicious Activity 
If you receive a suspicious call from someone claiming to be from Social Security , hang up and then report details of the call to the Office of the Inspector General. You can do this by submitting a report online. 
Additional Information 
Protecting Personal Information Fraud Prevention And Reporting Legal Enforcement And Financial Penalties 
FAQs 
What should I do if I get a call claiming there's a problem with my Social Security number or account? How do you protect my identity when I use a my Social Security account? 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#5
document : 
Corrected Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Child 
If you legally change your child's name because of adoption, court order or any other reason , you need to tell Social Security so that your child can get a corrected card. If your child is working , also tell your child's employer. If you do not tell us when your child's name changes , it may : Delay your tax refund or your child's refund ; and Prevent your child's wages from being posted correctly to your child's Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your child's future Social Security benefits. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. 
What original documents do I need? 
Citizenship If you have not previously established your child's U.S. citizenship with us , we need to see proof of U.S. citizenship. We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include : Certification of Report of Birth DS-1350 ; Consular Report of Birth Abroad FS-240 ; U.S. passport ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 ; or Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561. Name Change If you need to change the name on your child's Social Security card , you must show us proof of your child's legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove your child's legal name change include : Final adoption decree with the new name ; Certificate of Naturalization showing the new name ; or Court order approving the name change. If the document you provide as evidence of your child's legal name change does not give us enough information to identify your child in our records or if you changed your child's name more than four years ago , you must show us an identity document in your child's prior name as shown in our records. We will accept an identity document in your child's old name that has expired. If you do not have an identity document in your child's prior name , we may accept an unexpired identity document in your child's new name as long as we can properly establish your child's identity in our records. Identity Your child : We can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note Your child's new card will have the same number as your child's previous card, but will show a new name. We will mail your child's card as soon as we have all of your child's information and have verified your child's documents. 

title : Social Security Direct Deposit | Social Security Administration#2
document : 
Already receiving benefits 
If you already receive Social Security or SSI benefits and you have a bank account , you can sign up for Direct Deposit by : starting or changing Direct Deposit online Social Security benefits only , or contacting your bank, credit union or savings and loan association , or calling Social Security toll - free at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778, or Consider the Direct Express debit card as another viable option. The Direct Express card is a debit card you can use to access your benefits. And you don't need a bank account. With the Direct Express card program , we deposit your federal benefit payment directly into your card account. Your monthly benefits will be available on your payment day on time, every time. You can use the card to make purchases, pay bills or get cash at thousands of locations. It s quick and easy to sign up for the card. Call the toll - free Direct Express hotline at 1 - 800 - 333 - 1795. Also , Social Security can help you sign up. If you don't have an account , you must open an account before you can sign up for Direct Deposit. You should shop around in your area to find an account that has the features you want at a price you can afford. When you decide on the account that is right for you , let the representative at the financial institution know that you are interested in signing up to receive your benefits by Direct Deposit. 
Not currently receiving benefits 
If you don t get Social Security or SSI benefits yet but are planning to apply , tell the Social Security representative when you apply for benefits that you want to sign up for Direct Deposit. If you already have an account , have your checkbook or a copy of your bank statement with you. 

title : Medicare Benefits | Social Security Administration#1
document : 
Medicare Benefits 

How To Apply Online For Just Medicare 
You can apply online for Medicare even if you are not ready to retire. Use our online application to sign up for Medicare. It takes less than 10 minutes. In most cases , once your application is submitted electronically , you re done. There are no forms to sign and usually no documentation is required. Social Security will process your application and contact you if we need more information. Otherwise , you ll receive your Medicare card in the mail. Learn more about your Medicare card. Apply for Medicare Only Return to Saved Application|Check Application Status|Replace Medicare Card Medicare is managed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS. Social Security works with CMS by enrolling people in Medicare. For more information about applying for Medicare only and delaying retirement benefits , visit Applying for Medicare Only Before You Decide. To find out what documents and information you need to apply , go to the Checklist For The Online Medicare, Retirement, And Spouses Application. 
New Medicare Cards 
To help protect your identity , Medicare has sent you a new Medicare card. Your new card will have a new Medicare Number that s unique to you, instead of your Social Security Number. If you did not receive your new Medicare card , there may be something that needs to be corrected, like your mailing address. You can update your mailing address by logging in to or creating your personal my Social Security account. 
Learn about Medicare 
Medicare is our country s health insurance program for people age 65 or older. Certain people younger than age 65 can qualify for Medicare, too, including those with disabilities and those who have permanent kidney failure. To learn more , read our Medicare publication. 
Already Enrolled in Medicare 
If you already have Medicare , you can get information and services online. Find out how to manage your benefits. If you already have Medicare Part A and wish to sign up for Medicare Part B, please complete form CMS 40-B, Application for Enrollment in Medicare - Part B Medical Insurance, and take or mail it to your local Social Security office. Anyone who has Medicare can get Medicare prescription drug coverage. Some people with limited resources and income also may be able to get Extra Help to pay for the costs. 
Applying for Medicare 
When you apply for Medicare , you can sign up for Part A Hospital Insurance and Part B Medical Insurance. Because you must pay a premium for Part B coverage , you can turn it down. However , if you decide to enroll in Part B later on , you may have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B coverage. Your monthly premium will go up 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Part B, but didn t sign up for it, unless you qualify for a special enrollment period. If you re eligible at age 65 , your initial enrollment period begins three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn age 65, and ends three months after that birthday. However , if you don t enroll in Medicare Part B during your initial enrollment period , you have another chance each year to sign up during a general enrollment period from January 1 through March 31. Your coverage begins on July 1 of the year you enroll. Read our Medicare publication for more information. 
Questions about our online application 

Who can apply for Medicare online? 
You can use our online Medicare application if you : Are at least 64 years and 9 months old ; Want to sign up for Medicare but do not currently have ANY Medicare coverage ; Do not want to start receiving Social Security benefits at this time ; and Are not currently receiving Social Security retirement, disability or survivors benefits. 
When should I apply? 
You should sign up for Medicare three months before reaching age 65, even if you are not ready to start receiving retirement benefits. You can opt out of receiving cash retirement benefits now once you are in the online application. Then you can apply online for retirement benefits later. With our online application , you can sign up for Medicare Part A Hospital Insurance and Part B Medical Insurance. Because you must pay a premium for Part B coverage , you can turn it down. If you choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B and then decide to do so later , your coverage may be delayed and you may have to pay a higher monthly premium for as long as you have Part B. Your monthly premium will go up 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Part B, but didn t sign up for it, unless you qualify for a " Special Enrollment Period. " 
Special Enrollment Period (SEP) 
If you have medical insurance coverage under a group health plan based on your or your spouse's current employment , you may not need to apply for Medicare Part B at age 65. You may qualify for a " Special Enrollment Period " SEP that will let you sign up for Part B during : Any month you remain covered under the group health plan and your, or your spouse's, employment continues ; or The 8-month period that begins with the month after your group health plan coverage or the employment it is based on ends , whichever comes first. 
Why apply for Medicare online? 
Using the online Medicare application has a number of benefits. You can: Avoid trips to your Social Security Office, saving you time and money. Answer questions at your convenience by starting and stopping the application without fear of losing any information you entered. Make corrections to the application prior to submission. Submit your application electronically. There is no need to mail in your application. When you are finished , just select Submit Now to send your application to Social Security. Receive a receipt online for your application that you can print and keep for your records. Check the status of your application online. You will receive a confirmation number once you submit your application. 
What happens after I apply? 
Once we receive your application , we will Review your application and contact you if we need more information or if we need to see your documents ; Process your application once we have all of the necessary information and documents ; and Mail you a decision letter. 
Other Medicare registration/enrollment options 
You can also apply : By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#13
document : 
Original Card for a Noncitizen Child 
In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from the Department of Homeland Security DHS can apply for a Social Security number. If your child does not have permission to work but needs a Social Security number for other purposes , see " If your child does not have permission to work " for further information. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. Adoption In some cases , we can assign your adopted child a number before the adoption is complete , but you may want to wait. Then , you can apply for the number using your child's new name. If you want to claim your child for tax purposes while the adoption is still pending , contact the Internal Revenue Service for Form W-7A, Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. For more information, see Social Security Numbers For Children (Publication No. 05-10023). 
What original documents do I need? 
Immigration Status To prove your child's U.S. immigration status , you must show us your child's current U.S. immigration document, such as : I-551 Lawful Permanent Resident Card, Machine Readable Immigrant Visa ; I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit ; or I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport. If your child is an F-1 or M-1 student , we must see your child's I-20 Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status. If your child is a J-1 or J-2 exchange visitor , you must see your child's DS-2019 Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. Work Eligibility In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from DHS can apply for a Social Security number. For most foreign workers , we only need to see an I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport showing a class of admission permitting work. Some foreign workers must show their I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit from DHS. Student : If you are an F-1 student and eligible to work on campus , you must provide a letter from your designated school official that : Identifies you ; Confirms your current school status ; and Identifies your employer and the type of work you are, or will be, doing. We also need to see evidence of that employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter from your employer. Your supervisor must sign and date the letter. The letter must describe : Your job; Your employment start date ; The number of hours you are, or will be, working ; and Your supervisor's name and telephone number. If you are an F-1 student authorized to work in curricular practical training CPT , you must provide us your Form I-20 with the employment page completed and signed by your designated school official. If you are an F-1 student and have a work permit I-766 from DHS , you must present it. If you are a J-1 student, student intern or international visitor , you must provide a letter from your sponsor. The letter should be on sponsor letterhead with an original signature that authorizes your employment. If your child does not have permission to work : Lawfully admitted noncitizens can get many benefits and services without a Social Security number. You do not need a number to conduct business with a bank, register for school, apply for educational tests, obtain private health insurance, apply for school lunch programs or apply for subsidized housing. You cannot get a Social Security number for the sole purpose of obtaining a driver's license. Government benefits or services : If your child does not have permission to work , the child may apply for a Social Security number only if : A federal law requires your child to provide a Social Security number to get a particular benefit or service ; or A state or local law requires you to provide your Social Security number to get general assistance benefits for which you already have qualified. If your child needs a number to meet these state or local requirements , you must bring us a letter from the government agency. It must be on letterhead stationery no form letters or photocopies and : Specifically identify your child as the applicant ; Cite the law requiring your child to have a Social Security number ; Indicate that your child meets all the agency's requirements, except having the number ; and Contain an agency contact name and telephone number. Taxes: If you need a number for your child for tax purposes and your child is not authorized to work in the United States , you can apply for an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number for your child from the Internal Revenue Service IRS. Visit IRS in person or call the IRS toll - free number , 1 - 800-TAXFORM 1 - 800 - 829 - 3676, and request Form W-7A Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. If you are assigned a number for non - work purposes , you cannot use it to work. If you use it to work , we will inform DHS. Age You must present your child's foreign birth certificate if you have it or can get it within 10 days. If not , we will consider other documents such as your child's passport or a document issued by DHS as evidence of your child's age. Anyone age 12 or older requesting an original Social Security number must appear in person for an interview. We will ask for evidence to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. If your child lived outside the United States for an extended period , a current or previous passport , school and/or employment records , and any other record that would show long - term residence outside the United States could be used to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. Identity Your child : Social Security will ask to see your child's current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. If your child does not have a current DHS document , we can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. If you are not a U.S. citizen , Social Security will ask to see a current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use a DHS work permit as proof of both immigration status and identity. However , you must provide at least two separate documents. 

title : Apply for Retirement Benefits | SSA#1
document : 
Apply for Retirement Benefits 
Starting your Social Security retirement benefits is a major step on your retirement journey. This page will guide you through the process of applying for retirement benefits when you re ready to take that step. Our online application is a convenient way to apply on your own schedule, without an appointment. You can also apply by phone or by appointment at a Social Security office. 
Ready To Retire? 
Start your application today Apply Online For Retirement Benefits Jump to a topic on this page : Before You Apply / How To Apply / Once You've Applied 
Before You Apply 
Before you apply , take time to review the basics, understand the process, and gather the documents you ll need to complete an application. 
Review Retirement Benefits Basics 
You can start your retirement benefits as early as age 62 or as late as age 70. If you re preparing to apply for retirement benefits, knowing when you re eligible to apply and how the system works are the first steps in choosing what age is right for you. Before you submit an application , go to our Learn About Retirement Benefits page to understand : How you qualify for Social Security benefits. How your earnings and age can affect your benefits. What you should consider in deciding when to start receiving benefits. Retirement benefits for spouses and family members. 
Understand The Application Process 
The retirement benefits application process follows these general steps, whether you apply online, by phone, or in person : Gather the information and documents you need to apply. Complete and submit your application. We review your application and contact you if we need more information. We mail you a decision letter. You start receiving your retirement benefits. 
How Early Can I Apply? 
Apply four months before you want your Social Security retirement benefits to start. If you want your benefits to start at age 62 , you can apply at age 61 and eight months. 
Ready To Start Medicare? 
If you ll turn 65 within three months, you can use our online application to apply for Medicare and Social Security retirement benefits at the same time , or you can use it to apply for just Medicare. To learn more about your Medicare options , review our section on Medicare Benefits. 
Applying As A Spouse Or Family Member 
You may be able to receive retirement benefits on your spouse or former spouse s record. Likewise , your spouse or family member may be able to receive benefits on your record if they qualify. Learn more about Benefits For Your Family. 
Retirement Benefits For Survivors 
If you are the spouse, divorced spouse, family member, or parent of a worker who has died and you are planning to apply for retirement benefits , review our Survivors Benefits page to see how Social Security survivor benefits relate to your situation. 
Gather Information You Need to Apply 
Before applying , be ready to provide your Social Security number and information about : Dates of current and previous marriages , and where you were married. U.S. military service dates and branches. Employer names and dates for the past two years. Self - employment income and type of business. Bank information to set up your direct deposit. Information on family members who may be eligible to receive benefits on your record. We will ask for certain documents we need to review and process your application. These documents may include : Your original birth certificate or other proof of your age. This must be the original document or a certified copy from the issuing agency. Proof of U.S. citizenship if you were not born in the U.S. and have not submitted proof for an earlier Medicare or Social Security claim. We must see the original document or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept expired, notarized, or photocopied documents. A copy of your W-2 tax form and/or self - employment tax return from last year. A photocopy is acceptable. A copy of your U.S. military service papers if you served before 1968. A photocopy is acceptable. As you prepare to apply for benefits , first gather the documents listed on our Checklist for Online Medicare, Retirement & Spouses Application. Instructions on how to submit your documents will appear at the end of the online application. If applying by phone , gather the information above. We will walk you through the process on the phone. If applying in person , ask your local Social Security office what you need to bring when you call to schedule your appointment. They can help you if you don t have all your documents right now. 
Additional Information 
Estimate Your Retirement Benefits You Need To Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare Information Benefits For Your Family 
FAQs 
How do I sign up for Medicare? 
How To Apply 
Applying online is the easiest way to complete your application at a time that works for you, without a trip to the Social Security office. You can also apply by phone or at a Social Security office. This section will tell you about the different options. 
Apply Online 
Follow these steps to apply online : To start your application , go to our Apply for Benefits page, read and agree to the Terms of Service. Click Next. On that page , review the Getting Ready section to make sure you have the information you need to apply. Select Start A New Application. We will ask a few questions about who is filling out the application. You will then sign into your my Social Security account or you will be prompted to create one. Complete the application. Watch our video, Welcome To Our Online Retirement / Medicare Application, for an overview of the process. 
Tips For Using The Online Application 
We ve worked hard to make applying online as simple as possible while also keeping your information safe. For security reasons , the online application gives you a warning if you leave it open and don t do anything for 25 minutes. You can choose to extend your time on the page if you get this warning. However , after the third warning , you must move to another page or your information will not be saved. Here are more tips for using the online application : If you get stuck on a question , you can skip to the next question and come back later. You can save your application to finish another time if needed. Next time you sign in , go to Return to a Saved Application. You are not allowed to use periods, commas, or other special characters for some answers, including addresses. If you get a message about this , go back and enter the information without periods or other characters. Start your application now. 
Signing The Online Application 
You ll have a chance to review your answers and make changes, if needed. Once you ve filled everything out , we ll ask you to confirm that your answers are true to the best of your knowledge. You can be held liable for intentionally providing false or misleading information. The last step is to sign the online application by clicking Submit Now. You can check the status of your submitted application using a confirmation number we provide. 
Helping Someone Else Apply Online 
You may help someone else fill out their application , but you are not allowed to sign it for them. Only the person applying for benefits can legally sign the application. If they are not able to sign online , we will mail them a copy to sign. Read more about Helping Someone Apply Online. 
Apply With Your Local Office 
You can do most of your business with Social Security online. If you cannot use these online services , your local Social Security office can help you apply. Although our offices are closed to the public , employees from those offices are assisting people by telephone. You can find the phone number for your local office by using our Field Office Locator and looking under Social Security Office Information. The toll - free Office number is your local office. 
Apply By Phone 
Call 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. , Monday through Friday , to apply by phone. 
If You Do Not Live In The U.S. Or One Of Its Territories 
Contact the Federal Benefits Unit for your country of residence if you live outside the U.S. or a U.S. territory and wish to apply for retirement benefits. 
Additional Information 
Our Online Benefits Application What Is An Account? Online Services 
FAQs 
How do I return to an online application for retirement benefits that I already started but did not finish? 
Once You've Applied 
Once we receive your application , we ll review it and contact you if we have any questions. We might request additional documents from you before we can process your application. 
Look For Our Response 
You ll receive a letter in the mail with our decision. If you included information about other family members when you applied , we ll let you know if they may be able to receive benefits from your application. 
Check The Status 
You can check the status of your application online using your personal my Social Security account. If you are unable to check your status online , you can call us 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Appeal A Decision 
You have a right to appeal any decision we make about whether you re entitled to benefits. You must request an appeal in writing within 60 days of receiving our decision. There are four levels of appeal : Reconsideration by Social Security staff. A hearing before an administrative law judge. A review by Social Security s Appeals Council. A review by the federal courts. To learn more , visit Appeal A Decision. 
Withdraw Your Application 
Sometimes , life changes occur after you submit your application. You have up to 12 months to withdraw your application, if you change your mind. You will be required to repay any benefits you ve already received. Learn more about Withdrawing Your Social Security Retirement Application. 
Additional Information 
Get Your Social Security Benefit Verification Letter Online Your Right To Question The Decision Made On Your Claim 
FAQs 
How do I check the status of a pending application for benefits? 

title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Getting Benefits While Working | Social Security Administration#1
document : 
Benefits Planner: Retirement 

Getting Benefits While Working 
You can work while you receive Social Security retirement or survivors benefits. When you do , it could mean a higher benefit for you in the future. Each year we review the records for all working Social Security recipients. If your earnings for the prior year are higher than one of the years we used to compute your retirement benefit , we will recalculate your benefit amount. We pay the increase retroactive to January the year after you earned the money. Higher benefits can be important to you later in life and increase the future benefit amounts your family and your survivors could receive. 
How Much Can I Earn And Still Get Benefits? 
If you are younger than full retirement age and make more than the yearly earnings limit , your earnings may reduce your benefit amount. (Full retirement age is 66 for people born between 1943 and 1954. Beginning with 1955, two months are added for every birth year until the full retirement age reaches 67 for people born in 1960 or later.) If you are under full retirement age for the entire year , we deduct $1 from your benefit payments for every $2 you earn above the annual limit. For 2019 , that limit is $17,640. 

title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#19
document : 
Replacement Card for a Noncitizen Child 
You can replace your child's Social Security card for free if it is lost or stolen. You are limited to three replacement cards in a year and 10 during a lifetime. Legal name changes and other exceptions do not count toward these limits. For example , changes in immigration status that require card updates may not count toward these limits. Also , you may not be affected by these limits if you can prove you need the card to prevent a significant hardship. In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from the Department of Homeland Security DHS can apply for a Social Security number. If your child does not have permission to work but needs a Social Security number for other purposes , see " If your child does not have permission to work " for further information. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. 
What original documents do I need? 
Immigration Status To prove your child's U.S. immigration status , you must show us your child's current U.S. immigration document, such as : I-551 Lawful Permanent Resident Card, Machine Readable Immigrant Visa ; I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit ; or I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport. If your child is an F-1 or M-1 student , we must see your child's I-20 Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status. If your child is a J-1 or J-2 exchange visitor , you must see your child's DS-2019 Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. Work Eligibility In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from DHS can apply for a Social Security number. For children with work - authorization , we only need to see an I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport showing a class of admission permitting work. Some children must show their I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit from DHS. Student : If you are an F-1 student and eligible to work on campus , you must provide a letter from your designated school official that : Identifies you ; Confirms your current school status ; and Identifies your employer and the type of work you are, or will be, doing. We also need to see evidence of that employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter from your employer. Your supervisor must sign and date the letter. The letter must describe : Your job; Your employment start date ; The number of hours you are, or will be, working ; and Your supervisor's name and telephone number. If you are an F-1 student authorized to work in curricular practical training CPT , you must provide us your Form I-20 with the employment page completed and signed by your designated school official. If you are an F-1 student and have a work permit I-766 from DHS , you must present it. If you are a J-1 student, student intern or international visitor , you must provide a letter from your sponsor. The letter should be on sponsor letterhead with an original signature that authorizes your employment. If your child does not have permission to work : Lawfully admitted noncitizens can get many benefits and services without a Social Security number. You do not need a number to conduct business with a bank, register for school, apply for educational tests, obtain private health insurance, apply for school lunch programs or apply for subsidized housing. You cannot get a Social Security number for the sole purpose of obtaining a driver's license. Government benefits or services : If your child does not have permission to work , the child may apply for a Social Security number only if : A federal law requires your child to provide a Social Security number to get a particular benefit or service ; or A state or local law requires you to provide your Social Security number to get general assistance benefits for which you already have qualified. If your child needs a number to meet these state or local requirements , you must bring us a letter from the government agency. It must be on letterhead stationery no form letters or photocopies and : Specifically identify your child as the applicant ; Cite the law requiring your child to have a Social Security number ; Indicate that your child meets all the agency's requirements, except having the number ; and Contain an agency contact name and telephone number. Taxes: If you need a number for your child for tax purposes and your child is not authorized to work in the United States , you can apply for an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number for your child from the Internal Revenue Service IRS. Visit IRS in person or call the IRS toll - free number , 1 - 800-TAXFORM 1 - 800 - 829 - 3676, and request Form W-7A Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. If you are assigned a number for non - work purposes , you cannot use it to work. If you use it to work , we will inform DHS. Identity Your child : Social Security will ask to see your child's current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. If your child does not have a current DHS document , we can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. If you are not a U.S. citizen , Social Security will ask to see a current DHS document. Acceptable documents include : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport ; I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use a DHS work permit as proof of both immigration status and identity. 

title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Benefits For Your Spouse | Social Security Administration#2
document : 
Benefits For Your Spouse 
Even if you have never worked under Social Security , you may be able to get spouse s retirement benefits if you are at least 62 years of age and your spouse is receiving retirement or disability benefits. You can also qualify for Medicare at age 65. If you are divorced , you may still be able to get benefits on your ex - spouse's record. For information on the requirements for Divorced Spouse's Benefits , read " If You Are Divorced You can receive the spouse's benefit no matter what your age is if you are caring for their child who is also receiving benefits. 
How Much Will I Receive? 
If you qualify and apply for your own retirement benefits and for benefits as a spouse , we always pay your own benefits first. If your benefits as a spouse are higher than your own retirement benefits , you will get a combination of benefits equaling the higher spouse benefit. If you begin receiving benefits : between age 62 and your full retirement age , the amount will be permanently reduced by a percentage based on the number of months up to your full retirement age. If you are under full retirement age and you continue to work while receiving benefits , your benefits may be affected by the retirement earnings test. at your full retirement age , your benefit as a spouse cannot exceed one - half of your spouse's full retirement amount. If you were born before January 2 , 1954 and have already reached full retirement age , you can choose to receive only the spouse s benefit and delay receiving your retirement benefit until a later date. If your spouse is full retirement age and applying for spouse s benefits only , they can apply online by using the retirement application. Your spouse can also contact us to schedule an appointment. If your spouse s birthday is January 2 , 1954 or later , the option to take only one benefit at full retirement age no longer exists. If your spouse files for one benefit , they will be effectively filing for all retirement or spousal benefits. If you will receive a pension for work not covered by Social Security such as government employment , the amount of your Social Security benefits on your spouse's record may be reduced. Benefits paid to you as a spouse will not decrease your spouse s retirement benefit. In fact , the value of the benefits you may receive, added to their benefits, may help your spouse decide if taking benefits sooner may be more advantageous. 
Maximum Family Benefits 
If one of your spouse's children also qualifies for benefits , there is a limit to the amount we can pay family members. The total depends on your spouse's benefit amount and the number of family members who also qualify on the same record. The total varies , but generally the total amount the worker your spouse and their family members can receive is about 150 to 180 percent of the worker's full retirement benefit. 
How Do I Apply? 
You can apply : Online - Use our Social Security Retirement / Medicare Benefit Application to apply for retirement, spouse's, divorced spouse's or Medicare benefits. If your spouse is already receiving benefits when you apply , or if you and your spouse apply at the same time , we will also check your eligibility for benefits as a spouse. If you qualify , your application will automatically serve as a request for spousal benefits. By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. 
Next Steps 
Even if you do not qualify for benefits on someone else's record , some members of your family may qualify for benefits on your record. If you: are interested in information about benefits for your family, go to " Benefits For Your Family. " never married or had children , go to " How You Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare. " 

title : Add Dependents To Your VA Disability Benefits | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Add dependents to your VA disability benefits 
Find out how to add a dependent spouse, child, and/or parent to your VA disability benefits for additional compensation. 
Am I eligible for additional VA disability compensation for my dependent(s)? 
You may be eligible for additional disability compensation for a spouse, child, and/or parent if you meet both of the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true. You: Are eligible for VA disability compensation , and Have a combined disability rating of at least 30 % Adding a dependent may make you eligible to receive a higher compensation payment also called a benefit rate. 
Who does VA consider a dependent? 
A dependent is : A spouse Note: we recognize same - sex and common - law marriages A parent , if you re directly caring for them and their income and net worth are below a certain amount who meets one of the eligibility requirements listed below An unmarried child including an adopted child or stepchild To be considered a dependent , one of these must be true of an unmarried child. They: Are under 18 years old , or Are between the ages of 18 and 23 years old and enrolled in school full time , or Became permanently disabled before they turned 18 
When should I add a dependent to my benefits? 
This depends on where you are in the process of filing for disability compensation. 
If you haven t yet filed a claim for disability compensation 
You can file a claim for additional compensation for a dependent at the same time as you file your original claim for disability compensation. If you receive a combined disability rating of at least 30% , we ll automatically consider your eligibility for additional compensation for your dependent. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation 
If you have one or more dependents, but you didn t claim them when you originally filed for disability compensation 
If you have a combined disability rating of at least 30% , you can file a claim for additional disability compensation now. 
If something changes in your family status after you received a combined disability rating of at least 30% 
You can file a claim for additional disability compensation whenever you add a dependent. You can add a dependent if : You get married You have or adopt a child Your child is between 18 and 23 years old and enrolled in school full time We determine that your child, who is at least 18 years old, became permanently disabled before turning 18 You become the caregiver for a parent whose income and net worth is below a certain amount 
How do I add a dependent to my benefits? 

To file a claim for additional disability compensation for a child or spouse 
You can file a claim for additional compensation for a child or spouse online right now through our eBenefits website. Note: You may need to provide more information or forms along with your claim. Go to eBenefits to add a dependent child or spouse If you re claiming your child who became permanently disabled before they turned 18 , you ll need to turn in all private medical records relating to the child s disabilities with your application. If your dependent is a child who s between 18 and 23 years old and attending school full time , you ll also need to submit a Request for Approval of School Attendance VA Form 21 - 674 with your application. Download VA Form 21 - 674 PDF 
To file a claim for additional disability compensation for a dependent parent 
You ll need to fill out and submit a Statement of Dependency of Parent VA Form 21P-509 by mail or fax. Download VA Form 21P-509 PDF Please send all correspondence related to compensation claims to this address : Department of Veterans Affairs Evidence Intake Center PO Box 4444 Janesville , WI 53547 - 4444 Or fax it to : 844 - 531 - 7817 if you live in the U.S. , if you live outside of the U.S. or + 1 - 248 - 524 - 4260 
What if I need help with my claim? 
You can work with an accredited Veterans Service Officer VSO. We trust these professionals because they re trained and certified in the VA claims and appeals process. A VSO can answer your questions or even file your claim for you. Get help filing your claim 
More questions about adding a dependent to your VA disability compensation 
Yes , but we encourage you to file online. The online process is simple , and you can upload your supporting documents along with your claim. When you file your claim online , we recognize the day you start the online claim process as the date VA received your claim. This means that if we decide you re eligible for additional disability compensation, we ll pay you back to this date. If you can t, or don t want to file online , you can file a claim for additional disability compensation by mail or fax using the forms below : For a spouse or a child under 18 years of age , you ll need to fill out a Declaration of Status of Dependents VA Form 21 - 686c. Download VA Form 21 - 686c PDF For a child who s between 18 and 23 years old and attending school full time , you ll need to fill out both VA Form 21 - 686c and a Request for Approval of School Attendance VA Form 21 - 674. Download VA Form 21 - 686c PDF Download VA Form 21 - 674 PDF For a dependent parent , you ll need to fill out a Statement of Dependency of Parent VA Form 21P-509. Download VA Form 21P-509 PDF Mail your completed form to : Department of Veterans Affairs Evidence Intake Center PO Box 4444 Janesville , WI 53547 - 4444 Or fax them to : 844 - 531 - 7817 if you live in the U.S. , if you live outside of the U.S. or + 1 - 248 - 524 - 4260 You can file your claim again online for a faster decision. If we award you additional disability compensation , we ll give you back pay from the original date we received your paper form. We may pay you back to the date of your marriage or the birth or adoption of your child if you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Had already received a combined disability rating of at least 30% at the time of the marriage, birth, or adoption , and File your claim for additional disability compensation for the dependent within a year of the marriage, birth, or adoption, and Respond within a year to our request for any more information or evidence needed to confirm your claim If it s been more than one year since you got married or had or adopted a child , we may not pay you back to the date of the marriage, birth, or adoption. Instead , we may pay you back only to the date we received your claim for additional disability for the dependent or, in some cases, up to a year before before this date. We ll begin paying you within 2 weeks after we approve your claim. You can check this through your eBenefits account. Sign in to your account. Then click the Dependents link under the My Profile section. If you see your dependent listed there , you should be eligible for additional compensation for them. If they re not listed , you should file a claim for the additional benefit. Go to eBenefits 
Questions about adding or removing certain kinds of dependents 
If you and your spouse are both Veterans with a combined disability rating of at least 30% , you can both receive additional disability compensation for each other and for your children. You should know: It ll take us longer to process your claim if your spouse is also a Veteran. But if you file your claim online, and we decide you re eligible for additional disability compensation for your dependent , we ll pay you back to the date you started the online claim process. You can submit a request through eBenefits asking us to stop paying additional disability compensation for a spouse or child. We ll need more time to process a request that involves a child than a request that involves a spouse , but the online process is still much faster than submitting a paper request. If you get divorced , you ll want to notify us right away. You don t need to send or upload supporting documents to eBenefits in this case. This will help to make sure we don t continue paying you additional disability compensation for your former spouse and, if applicable, stepchildren after the divorce. If we continue paying you benefits that you re not eligible for , we may withhold money from future payments until you ve paid us back. Go to eBenefits You ll need to update your child s school information in eBenefits. Sign in to your account. Click Add or Remove Dependents you ll find it under the Apply section on the homepage. Then select Update Dependents. Go to eBenefits No. We ll track your child s age based on the date of birth you give us when you submit your claim. When your child turns 18 , we ll stop paying additional disability compensation for them unless you let us know they re enrolled in school full time. 

title : Benefits For Spouses And Dependents (VA DIC) | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Benefits for spouses and dependents (VA DIC) 
If you re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a service member who died in the line of duty, or the survivor of a Veteran who died from a service - related injury or illness, you may be able to get a tax - free monetary benefit called VA Dependency and Indemnity Compensation VA DIC. Find out if you can get VA benefits or compensation. 
DIC eligibility for survivors of Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans 
If we denied your Blue Water Navy Veteran s service - connected disability claim in the past , you may be eligible for DIC benefits based on the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019. See DIC eligibility information and how to apply. Veterans who served on a Blue Water Navy vessel offshore of the Republic of Vietnam, or on another U.S. Navy or Coast Guard ship operating in the coastal waterways of Vietnam between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975, are now entitled to a presumption of service connection for illnesses related to Agent Orange exposure. This is a result of Public Law 116 - 23, also known as the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019. 
Am I eligible for VA DIC as a surviving spouse or dependent? 
You may be eligible for VA benefits or compensation for surviving spouses if you meet the requirements listed below. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. One of these must be true. You: Married the Veteran or service member before January 1 , 1957 , or Married the Veteran or service member within 15 years of their discharge from the period of military service during which the qualifying illness or injury started or got worse , or Were married to the Veteran or service member for at least 1 year , or Had a child with the Veteran or service member , aren t currently remarried , and either lived with the Veteran or service member without a break until their death or, if separated, weren t at fault for the separation Note: If you remarried on or after December 16 , 2003, and you were 57 years of age or older at the time you remarried , you can still continue to receive compensation. You ll also need to provide evidence showing that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died while on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive - duty training, or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury , or The Veteran didn t die from a service - connected illness or injury, but was eligible to receive VA compensation for a service - connected disability rated as totally disabling for a certain period of time If the Veteran s eligibility was due to a rating of totally disabling , they must have had this rating : For at least 10 years before their death , or Since their release from active duty and for at least 5 years immediately before their death , or For at least 1 year before their death if they were a former prisoner of war who died after September 30 , 1999 Note : Totally disabling means the Veteran s injuries made it impossible for them to work. You may be able to get compensation as a surviving child if you meet the requirements listed below. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. All of these must be true. You: Aren t married , and Aren t included on the surviving spouse s compensation , and Are under the age of 18 or under the age of 23 if attending school Note: If you were adopted out of the Veteran s or service member s family, but meet all other eligibility criteria , you still qualify for compensation. You ll also need to provide evidence that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died while on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive - duty training, or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury , or The Veteran didn t die from a service - connected illness or injury, but was eligible to receive VA compensation for a service - connected disability that was rated as totally disabling for a certain period of time If the Veteran s eligibility was due to a service - connected disability rated as totally disabling , they must have had this rating : For at least 10 years before their death , or Since their release from active duty and for at least 5 years immediately before their death , or For at least 1 year before their death if they were a former prisoner of war who died after September 30 , 1999 Note : Totally disabling means the Veteran s injuries make it impossible for them to work. You may be able to get compensation as a surviving parent if both of the descriptions below are true for you. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. Both of these must be true : You re the biological, adoptive, or foster parent of the Veteran or service member , and Your income is below a certain amount View the parents DIC rate table Note: We define a foster parent as someone who served in the role of a parent to the Veteran or service member before their last entry into active service. You ll also need to provide evidence that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died from an injury or illness while on active duty or in the line of duty while on active duty for training , or The service member died from an injury or certain illnesses in the line of duty while on inactive training , or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury 
What kind of benefits can I get? 
Tax - free monetary benefits 
How do I apply for compensation? 
First you ll need to fill out an application for benefits. The application you fill out will depend on your survivor status. If you re the surviving spouse or child of a service member who died while on active duty , your military casualty assistance officer will help you to complete an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits by a Surviving Spouse or Child VA Form 21P-534a. The officer will help you mail the form to the correct VA regional benefit office. Download VA Form 21P-534a PDF If you re the surviving spouse or child of a Veteran , fill out an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits VA Form 21P-534EZ. Download VA Form 21P-534EZ PDF If you re a surviving parent , fill out an Application for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation by Parent VA Form 21P-535. Download VA Form 21P-535 PDF 
You can apply for this benefit in any of these ways: 
Mail the form to the Pension Management Center PMC for your state. Find your PMC Work with an accredited representative. Get help filing your claim Go to a VA regional benefit office and get help from a VA employee. Find a VA regional benefit office near you 

title : Temporary Disability Rating After Surgery Or Cast | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Temporary disability rating after surgery or cast 
Are you recovering from surgery or a disability related to your military service that s left you unable to move? You may be able to get a temporary 100% disability rating and disability compensation or benefits if you have this kind of immobilizing disability. Find out if you can get this benefit. 
Can I get disability benefits from VA? 
You may be able to get disability benefits if you ve had surgery or received other treatment at a VA hospital, approved hospital, or outpatient center for a disability related to your military service called a service - connected disability. If you had surgery , both of these must be true for you : The surgery required a recovery time of at least one month or reports show that the surgery or treatment was for a service - connected disability , and The surgery resulted in severe issues, like : that haven t totally healed Surgical wounds Stumps of recent amputations Being unable to move due to being put in splints or casts to help with healing known as therapeutic immobilizations Being unable to leave your house known as house confinement Being required to use a wheelchair or crutches If you didn t have surgery , this must be true : You had one or more major joints immobilized by a cast. 
Who s covered? 
Veterans 
What kind of disability benefits can I get? 
Health care while you recover Added compensation payments A temporary 100% disability rating 
How do I get these benefits? 
You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation Recovery time from either a surgery or the immobilization of a joint by a cast without surgery requires a temporary 100% disability rating for a service - connected disability. The temporary 100% rating may continue for 1 to 3 months depending on your unique case. You may be able to get an extension for up to 3 more months if your case is severe. Example : A Veteran had a left knee injury that resulted in a 30% disability rating. As the knee problem got worse , the Veteran s VA doctor recommended surgery to stop more damage from happening. Since the doctor wouldn t know if the surgery was successful until 3 months after the Veteran s 1-week stay in the hospital , we granted the Veteran a temporary 100% disability rating for 3 months. 

title : Fully Developed Claim For A VA Pension | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Fully developed claim for a VA pension 
The Fully Developed Claim FDC program is the fastest way to get your VA pension claim processed , and there s no risk to your taking part in it. Just send in all your evidence, or supporting documents, when you file your claim. Participation in the FDC program is optional and won t affect your benefits. If you file a claim in the FDC program and we decide that additional documents exist that we need to decide your claim , we ll remove your claim from the FDC program and process it as a standard claim. 
Learn more about the FDC program 

FDC program 
When turning in your claim under the FDC program , please send us all the supporting documents you have and provide information about supporting documents that you don t have. Fill out an Application for Pension. Application for Pension VA Form 21P-527EZ When you file your claim , turn in : All necessary income and net - worth information , and All private medical records you have that are related to your claim , and Information about any health records that are available at a federal facility, like a VA medical center or clinic Go to any VA medical appointments required to decide your claim. 
Standard claim process 
With a standard claim , you ll give us permission to gather evidence or records for you. You ll need to give us enough information about the evidence so we can request it from the right person or agency. If a person or agency refuses to turn over the evidence, asks for money for the evidence, or can t get the evidence , we ll ask you to try to get the evidence or records. It s your responsibility to make sure we receive all requested records that aren t at a federal agency or office. 
If you re claiming non-service-connected pension benefits 
The evidence must show that you meet the requirements listed below. This must be true : Your net worth and income are within certain limits. And at least one of these must be true about your service. You: Served on active duty for any length of time during a period of war and were discharged due to a service - connected disability , or Started on active duty before September 8 , 1980 , and you served at least 90 days either all at one time or combined over time on active duty with at least 1 day being during wartime, or Started on active duty after September 7 , 1980 , and you served at least 2 years or the full period for which you were called or ordered to active duty, with at least 1 day being during wartime. Some exceptions may apply to this longer minimum service requirement. And at least one of these must also be true about your current situation. You: Are at least 65 years old , or Are a patient in a nursing home for long - term care , or Receive Social Security disability benefits , or Are unemployable because of a disability that doesn t go away , or Have a disability that doesn t go away and that makes it impossible for you to work , or Have a disease or disorder that we determine causes permanent and total disability 
If you re claiming non-service-connected pension benefits with Aid and Attendance or Housebound benefits 
The evidence must show that you meet at least one of the requirements listed below. At least one of these must be true. You: Have corrected vision of 5/200 or less in both eyes , or Have contraction of the concentric visual field to 5 degrees or less , or Are a patient in a nursing home due to the loss of mental or physical abilities , or Need another person to help you with daily activities like bathing, eating, dressing, adjusting prosthetic devices, or protecting you from the hazards of your environment, or Are bedridden and have to spend most of the day in bed because of your disability 
If you re claiming increased disability pension benefits based on being housebound 
The evidence must show that you meet at least one of the requirements listed below. At least one of these must be true. You have a : Single permanent disability that s 100% disabling , and you re confined to your home, or Disability rated 60% or higher in addition to the disability that qualifies you for a pension 
If you re claiming benefits for a disabled child 
The evidence must show that the child, before turning 18 years old, became unable to support themselves due to a mental or physical disability. 
FDC program 
Under the FDC program , we ll handle the evidence - gathering steps listed below. We ll: that you identify and authorize us to get from a federal facility, like a VA medical center Request relevant records Schedule a health exam or get a medical opinion for you , if we decide we need it for your claim 
Standard claim process 
With the standard claim process , we ll handle the evidence - gathering steps listed below. We ll: that you identify and authorize us to get from a federal facility, like a VA medical center Request relevant records Schedule a health exam or get a medical opinion for you , if we decide we need it for your claim Make every reasonable effort to request relevant records that you authorize us to get that aren t at a federal facility. These may include records from state or local governments, documents from a private doctor, hospital records, or records from current or former employers. 
FDC program 
You ll need to turn in the information and evidence at the same time as you file your claim. Note: If you turn in additional information or evidence after you send in your fully developed claim , we ll remove your claim from the FDC program and process it as a standard claim. If we decide your claim before 1 year from the date we receive the claim , you ll have the rest of that 1-year period to turn in additional information or evidence to support your claim. 
Standard claim process 
You ll need to turn in the information and evidence as soon as you can. Note: You have up to 1 year from the date we receive your claim to turn in any information and evidence. If we decide your claim before 1 year from the date we receive the claim , you ll have the rest of the 1-year period to turn in additional information or evidence to support your claim. Fill out an Application for Pension VA Form 21P-527EZ When you file your claim , you ll be able to upload all supporting documents and evidence, like your income information and any medical records related to your claim. 
Special situations 
If any of the below situations apply to you , you ll need to turn in the additional forms at the same time as you file your pension claim. If you re : Claiming non - service - connected pension with Housebound or Aid and Attendance benefits , you and your doctor will need to fill out a form called an Examination for Housebound Status or Permanent Need for Regular Aid and Attendance VA Form 21 - 2680. Download VA Form 21 - 2680 Note: If you re in a care facility, please also fill out a Request for Nursing Home Information in Connection with Claim for Aid and Attendance VA Form 21 - 0779. Download VA Form 21 - 0779 Claiming a child in school between the ages of 18 and 23 , fill out a Request for Approval of School Attendance VA Form 21 - 674. Download VA Form 21 - 674 Claiming benefits for a seriously disabled child , turn in all private medical records for the child s disabilities. 

title : How To Apply For A VA Home Loan COE | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
How to apply for a VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility 
Learn how to apply for a VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility COE. This is the first step in getting a VA direct or VA - backed home loan. It confirms for your lender that you qualify for the VA home loan benefit. Then , choose your loan type and learn about the rest of the loan application process. 
How do I prepare before starting my application? 
Gather the information you ll need to apply for your COE. Click on the description below that matches you best to find out what you ll need : If you re a Veteran , you ll need a copy of your discharge or separation papers DD214. If you re an active - duty Servicemember , you ll need : A statement of service signed by your commander, adjutant, or personnel officer showing this information : Your full name Your Social Security number Your date of birth you entered duty The date The duration of any lost time The name of the command providing the information If you re a current or former activated National Guard or Reserve member , you ll need a copy of your discharge or separation papers DD214. If you re a current member of the National Guard or Reserves, and have never been activated , you ll need : A statement of service signed by your commander, adjutant, or personnel officer showing this information : Your full name Your Social Security number Your date of birth you entered duty The date Your total number of creditable years of service The duration of any lost time The name of the command providing the information If you re a discharged member of the National Guard and were never activated , you ll need : Your Report of Separation and Record of Service NGB Form 22 for each period of National Guard service , and Your Retirement Points Statement NGB Form 23 and proof of the character of service If you re a discharged member of the Reserves and were never activated , you ll need : A copy of your latest annual retirement points , and Proof of your honorable service Find out how to apply for a COE as a surviving spouse 
How do I apply for my VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility? 
You can apply online right now. Go to eBenefits to apply 
You can also apply: 

Through our Web LGY system 
In some cases , you can get your COE through your lender using our Web LGY system. Ask your lender about this option. 
By mail 
To apply by mail , fill out a Request for a Certificate of Eligibility VA Form 26 - 1880 and mail it to the address listed on the form. Please keep in mind that this may take longer than applying online or through our Web LGY system. Download VA Form 26 - 1880. 
Next steps for getting a VA direct or VA-backed home loan 
Applying for your COE is only one part of the process for getting a VA direct or VA - backed home loan. Your next steps will depend on the type of loan you re looking to get and on your lender. For most loans , the lender will be a private bank or mortgage company. For the Native American Direct Loan , we ll be your lender. 

title : Health Needs And Conditions | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Health needs and conditions 
At VA , we offer many services and programs for Veterans with specific needs like women Veterans, Veterans with mental health problems, and elderly or disabled Veterans. We cover the cost of many of these services under the VA health care program. You may be able to get help paying for other services like dental care if you qualify for them as an added benefit. Find out how to access services for your specific needs. 
Are there any health concerns I should be aware of based on my service history? 
Yes. Certain health concerns may be more likely to affect Veterans who served in a specific time and place. Find out which health concerns you should be aware of depending on when and where you served. Get health information by service dates and locations 
How do I find out how to get health services for a specific condition or need? 
Mental health and trauma - related needs Mental health problems like bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and anxiety disorders Military sexual trauma MST Posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD Depression Suicide prevention Substance use problems Conditions of the eyes, ears, and teeth Vision care Hearing loss Dental care Illnesses and injuries Cancers and other conditions caused by contact with hazardous materials HIV/AIDS Kidney disease including dialysis care Multiple sclerosis MS Parkinson s disease Spinal cord injuries and disorders Traumatic brain injury TBI , polytrauma , and amputation Viral hepatitis Other health conditions and needs Assisted living and home health care Infertility due to service - connected conditions Women s health care needs Get an overview of what s covered by VA health care Use our health topics index to find more information 
Does VA address the specific health needs of LGBT Veterans? 
Yes. We re committed to serving the health needs of Veterans with LGBT and related identities and providing care in a sensitive, safe environment at all VA health facilities. For more information , you can download these fact sheets : Transgender male health care PDF Transgender female health care PDF Male Veterans : Gay and bisexual health care PDF Female Veterans : Lesbian and bisexual health care PDF You can also find out more about LGBT programs at VA medical centers across the nation. View VA medical center LGBT program websites Read about our approach to recognizing same - sex marriage 
What if I need help understanding my benefits or accessing services? 
If you want to know more about your VA health care benefits, your health care team, and where you ll go for care , we can help. Learn more about your VA health care coverage If you need help accessing services , call our toll - free hotline at 877 - 222 - 8387, Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. 
Can I manage my VA health and benefits online? 
Yes. If you re signed up for the VA health care program , you can manage your VA health and benefits online through VA.gov: Refill your prescriptionsSend a message to your VA health care providerCheck the status of a disability or pension claim 

title : View Your VA Payment History | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
View your VA payment history 
Find out how to view your VA payment history online. 
You ll need to sign in to eBenefits to view your payment history. 
To use this feature , you'll need a Premium DS Logon account. Your My HealtheVet or ID.me credentials won t work on the eBenefits website. Go to eBenefits to sign in, register, or upgrade your DS Logon account to Premium. Go to eBenefits to view payments 
What VA payment information can I view when I sign in? 
If you re a Veteran , you ll see a history of your past VA payments for : Disability compensation Pension benefits Education benefits If you re the survivor of a Veteran or service member , you ll see a history of your past VA payments for : Survivors pension benefits Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Chapter 35 benefits Dependency and Indemnity Compensation DIC 
When can I expect my first disability compensation payment? 
If your decision notice shows at least a 10% disability rating , you ll get your first payment within 15 days. If you don t get a payment within 15 days , please call the Veterans Help Line at 800 - 827 - 1000 TTY : 800 - 829 - 4833. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. ET. 
What should I do if I need to change my direct deposit or contact information? 

Change your information in either of these ways 
Change your information online , or Contact your nearest VA regional benefit office or eligibility office 
Change your address through your VA.gov profile 
You can sign in to VA.gov and change your address and other contact information in your VA.gov profile. This will update your information across disability compensation, pension benefits, claims and appeals, Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VR&E, and VA health care. Find out how to change your address on file with VA 
Should I contact VA if I have other changes to my information? 
Yes. It s important to update your information with us if you change your marital status, have a baby, adopt a child, or experience any other life change that could affect your rating or payment. If you have a disability rating of 30% or higher , you may be able to add eligible dependents to your VA disability compensation to get a higher payment also called a benefit rate. Find out how to add eligible dependents If your disability gets worse , you can file a claim for an increase in benefits. File for a VA disability increase 

title : Survivors And Dependents Educational Assistance | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance 
Learn about the Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance DEA program. If you re the child or spouse of a Veteran or service member who has died, is captured or missing, or has disabilities , you may be able to get help paying for school or job training through the DEA program also called Chapter 35. Find out if you re eligible for this benefit. 
Am I eligible for education benefits through the DEA program? 
You may be able to get these benefits if both you and the Veteran or service member meet certain eligibility requirements. One of the descriptions below must be true. The Veteran or service member : Is permanently and totally disabled due to a service - connected disability , or Died while on active duty or as a result of a service - connected disability , or Is missing in action or was captured in the line of duty by a hostile force , or Was forcibly detained held or interned in the line of duty by a foreign entity , or Is in the hospital or getting outpatient treatment for a service - connected permanent and total disability and is likely to be discharged for that disability effective December 23 , 2006 
If you re the child of a Veteran or service member 
You can get benefits if you re between the ages of 18 and 26, except in certain cases. You may be married or unmarried. If you re over 18 years old and using DEA , you can t get Dependency and Indemnity Compensation DIC from us. Learn about DIC If you join the military , you can t use this benefit while on active duty. And if you want to use this benefit after you leave the service , you can t have a dishonorable discharge. Military service can extend your eligibility , but this increase doesn t usually go past your 31st birthday. 
If you re the spouse of a Veteran or service member 
Your benefits start on the date we conclude that you qualify or on the date of the Veteran s death, and last for 10 years. If we rated the Veteran as permanently and totally disabled, with an effective date that s 3 years after discharge , you ll qualify for benefits for 20 years from that effective date. This new policy began on October 10 , 2008. We won t pay benefits for training you started before this date. If the service member died on active duty , your benefits end 20 years from the date of death. You can get DIC payments from us and use DEA benefits. 
What benefits can I get? 
We ll send you a monthly payment to help you cover the cost of : College or graduate degree programs Career - training certificate courses Educational and career counseling Apprenticeships On - the - job training Note: If you began using this program to pay for your school or training before August 1 , 2018 , you can get benefits for up to 45 months. If you began using the program on or after August 1 , 2018 , you can get benefits for up to 36 months. View current payment rates 
What if I qualify for both DEA and the Fry Scholarship? 
You ll need to pick one or the other. Once you make this choice , you can t switch to the other program. Learn about the Fry Scholarship Exception : If you re the child of a service member who died in the line of duty before August 1 , 2011 , you can use both DEA and the Fry Scholarship and get up to 81 months of education and training. You ll need to use one program at a time. 
Can I get more help if I have a disability that prevents me from working toward my goals? 
We may prescribe special restorative training, if needed, to help you overcome or lessen the effects of a physical or mental disability so you can work toward your educational or training goal. Or we may approve special vocational training you may need due to a physical or mental disability. These special benefits won t include medical or psychiatric care. 
How do I get these benefits? 
First , contact your school s certifying official to make sure your program is approved for VA benefits. Then , you can : Apply online now , or Apply by mail. You ll need to fill out a Dependents Application for VA Education Benefits VA Form 22 - 5490 and mail it to the regional processing office for your state. You ll find the address on the last page of the form. Download VA Form 22 - 5490 
If you haven t started school or a training program: 
Get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA - related claims. Get help filing your claim Get more information about schools and see if we ve approved your program. Use the GI Bill Comparison Tool 
If you ve already started your program: 
Take your application to your school or employer. Ask your school to fill out a VA Enrollment Certification VA Form 22 - 1999 and send it to us along with your application. 

title : Pre-Need Eligibility For Burial In A VA Cemetery | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Pre-need eligibility for burial in a VA cemetery 
You can apply to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery. This is called a pre - need determination of eligibility and it can help make the burial planning process easier for your family members in their time of need. Follow the steps below to apply. Please note: Pre - need means before the time of need. This application is for planning for your own burial in advance. Please don t complete this form if you re requesting burial at the time of need. Find out how to schedule a burial 
How do I prepare before starting my application? 

Find out if you re eligible. One of these must describe you: 
A Veteran who didn t receive a dishonorable discharge when you separated from the military , or The spouse or dependent child of a service member or Veteran , even if the service member or Veteran has already passed away , or In some cases , the adult dependent child of a service member or Veteran if you aren t married We base our decision of whether or not you qualify for burial in a VA national cemetery on your service history or the service history of the Veteran or service member who s sponsoring your application for burial as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child. Get more details about eligibility Note: If a service member dies on active duty , they re eligible for burial without a pre - need decision letter. 
Choose the VA national cemetery where you d prefer to be buried. 
Find a VA national cemetery Please note: This application is only for VA national cemeteries. If you d like to be buried in a state or tribal Veterans cemetery , contact that specific cemetery ahead of time to find out about their pre - need program. Some state Veterans cemeteries require that you live in that state or have other rules around eligibility. You can apply for a pre - need determination of eligibility from VA and also from a state or tribal Veterans cemetery. Find a state Veterans cemetery This application doesn t apply to Arlington National Cemetery or the United States Soldiers and Airmen s Home National Cemetery. If you d like to be buried in either of these Department of the Army cemeteries , please call 877 - 907 - 8585. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. ET , and Saturday , 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. ET. Getting a pre - need determination of eligibility doesn t guarantee you ll be buried in a specific VA national cemetery. We don t take reservations at any VA national cemetery. However , we ask where you prefer to be buried so we can try to help fulfill your final wishes. 
Gather the supporting documents and information you ll need to fill out the application. 
Please see the list below. If you don t have everything on the list , you can still apply and we ll help by finding the supporting documents we need. Just keep in mind that the more information you can give us when you apply, the faster we can review your application and give you a decision. We ll contact you if we need you to provide additional information. 
Be sure to fill out an application for each person requesting a pre-need eligibility determination. 
If both you and your spouse are applying , you ll each need to fill out your own application. 
What information do I need to apply? 
To apply , you ll need your or your sponsor s : Social Security number Date and place of birth Military status and service history like service dates, discharge character, and rank commonly found on the DD214 or other separation documents Discharge papers DD214 or other separation documents Note : If you don t have discharge papers, find out how to request the DD214. If you re applying as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child, you ll also need your personal information, including your Social Security number. If you re applying on behalf of someone else , you ll also need supporting documents showing you have the authority to apply for that person. You ll need to fill out one of these forms : Appointment of Veterans Service Organization as Claimant s Representative VA Form 21 - 22 Download VA Form 21 - 22 PDF Appointment of Individual as Claimant s Representative VA Form 21 - 22a Download VA Form 21 - 22a PDF If you re applying for an unmarried adult child of a Veteran or service member , you ll also need to provide supporting documents with information about the child s disability. The Veteran or guardian of the child should also ask the child s current doctor to verify the documents. These documents should include all of the following information : The date of the disability's onset , and A description of the disability, mental or physical, and A description of how dependent the disabled child is on the Veteran , and The marital status of the child 
How do I apply? 
You can apply online right now. Apply for pre - need eligibility 
You can also apply: 

By mail 
Fill out an Application for Pre - need Determination of Eligibility for Burial in a VA National Cemetery VA Form 40 - 10007. Download VA Form 40 - 10007 PDF The person applying for a pre - need determination must sign the form. If that person is under 18 years old , mentally unable to make decisions for themselves sometimes called mentally incompetent, or physically unable to sign the form , a spouse, parent, or court - appointed representative may sign the form. If you re signing the form on behalf of someone else , you ll need to : Select box 33B on the form and provide your name, address, phone number, and email address in blocks 34 through 37 Provide supporting documents that show why the person applying can t sign Provide supporting documents that show your relationship to the person applying Send your completed application with copies of your supporting documents to : National Cemetery Scheduling OfficePO Box 510543St. Louis , MO 63151 Please don t send us the originals of your DD214 and other supporting documents since we can t return them. Send copies only. 
By fax 
You can fax your application to us at 855 - 840 - 8299. 
What if I need help filling out my application? 
Call our toll - free hotline at 877 - 222 - 8387. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA - related claims, like an accredited representative or Veterans Service Officer VSO. Find a representative Find your state s Veterans agency Note: These services are free. No one should ever ask you to pay them to help you fill out VA Form 40 - 10007 or file your request. 
What happens after I apply? 
Find out what happens after you apply for a pre - need eligibility determination Note: We ve received a large number of pre - need eligibility applications , and it s slowing down our approval process. We ll let you know when we ve received your application and how long we think it ll take to make a decision. We re sorry for the delay. For more information , you can call 877 - 222 - 8387. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Please wait to hear back about your application rather than applying again. 

title : VA Life Insurance | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
VA life insurance 
VA life insurance can offer financial security for Veterans, service members, and their spouses and dependent children. Explore your options, manage your policy, and file claims to get the insurance benefits you've earned. 
On this page 
Get VA life insurance Manage your policy and benefits More information and resources 
Get VA life insurance 
About VA insurance options and eligibilityFind out which life insurance plans you may qualify for and the benefits you ll receive with each plan. Benefits for totally disabled or terminally ill policyholdersFind out if you can get your insurance premium waived or receive your benefits early in certain situations. Beneficiary financial counseling and online will preparationIf you're enrolled in a VA life insurance plan, find out if you can get free financial planning and online will preparation services. 
Manage your policy and benefits 
Access your policy onlineFind out how to check your policy's status, update your information, or pay your premium online. Update your beneficiariesKeep the information up to date about who you want to receive your insurance proceeds. This will make it easier for your family members to file a claim in their time of need. File a claim for insurance benefitsFind out how to claim VA life insurance benefits under your policy. Check your appeal statusTrack the status of your life insurance appeal. Convert to a commercial policyFind out when and how you can convert your VA life insurance to a commercial policy. File a TSGLI appeal VA Form SGLV 8600A If you've received a denial letter for Traumatic Injury Protection Life Insurance benefits that instructs you to use this form, file your appeal by the date provided in your letter. Enroll in VGLI Auto PaySign up to pay your Veterans' Group Life Insurance premium automatically from your bank account. Search for unclaimed insurance fundsIf you think we may owe you funds from a VA insurance policy , search our unclaimed funds records by the qualifying Veteran's name. 
More information and resources 
How much life insurance do I need? Use our life insurance needs calculator and VGLI comparison questionnaire to help decide how much life insurance you need. Myths and rumors about SGLI / VGLI insuranceGet the facts on common myths, rumors, and misconceptions about SGLI and VGLI insurance. About the SGLI Online Enrollment System SOES Learn about our new online process for enrolling in Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. Contact usFind out how to reach out to ask a question about your policy or file a claim for benefits. VA life insurance formsFind and download the forms you need to apply for and manage your life insurance benefits. Publications and handbooksDownload life insurance handbooks , guides , and newsletters. Mandatory electronic paymentsLearn about the law requiring us to pay all benefits by electronic funds transfer. Medical conditions that may make you uninsurableFind out which medical conditions may make it hard for you to get private life insurance after you separate from service , and what to do to make sure you have coverage. Special dividend rumorsLearn the truth about the rumors that there are special dividends for Veterans who don't have an active government life insurance policy. 
Other VA benefits and services 
Burial benefits and and memorial itemsGet help planning a burial, order a headstone or other memorial item, and apply for survivor and dependent benefits. Pension benefitsFind out if you're eligible for tax - free monthly payments as a wartime Veteran or surviving spouse or child. VA health careFind out how to apply for and manage your VA health care benefits. 
SGLI Online Enrollment System (SOES) 
Learn about our new online enrollment system for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. 
Message us 
Ask a question online 
Call us 
Support for SGLI or VGLI:800 - 419 - 1473 All other VA life insurance programs:800 - 669 - 8477 Call MyVA311 for help:844 - 698 - 2311 If you have hearing loss , call TTY : 711. 
Veterans Benefits Administration 

Get updates 
Veterans benefits email updates 
Follow us 
Veterans Benefits Administration Facebook Veterans Benefits Administration Instagram Veterans Benefits Administration Linkedin Veterans Benefits Administration Twitter Veterans Benefits Administration YouTube 

title : Agent Orange Exposure | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Agent Orange exposure 
The U.S. military used Agent Orange to clear plants and trees during the Vietnam War. If you served in Vietnam or in or near the Korean Demilitarized Zone DMZ during the Vietnam Era or in certain related jobs you may have had contact with this herbicide. We refer to this as having a presumption of contact. Find out if you can get disability compensation and other benefits for illnesses we believe are caused by Agent Orange. 
Can I get disability benefits from VA? 
You may be able to get disability benefits if the below descriptions are true for you. This must be true : You have an illness we believe is caused by Agent Orange called a presumptive disease And at least one of these must also be true. You: Came into contact with Agent Orange while serving in the military , or Served in or near the DMZ for any length of time between September 1 , 1967, and August 31 , 1971, or Served in the Republic of Vietnam for any length of time between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975. This may include serving aboard a vessel on the inland waterways, or on a vessel operating not more than 12 nautical miles seaward from the demarcation line of the waters of Vietnam and Cambodia as detailed in Public Law 116 - 23, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019. Review our list of diseases related to Agent OrangeLearn what kinds of service may have put you in contact with Agent Orange 
Who s covered? 
Veterans Qualified dependents 
What kind of benefits can I get? 
Health care Compensation payments An Agent Orange Registry health exam 
How do I get these benefits? 
You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation and submit your evidence supporting documents. 
If you have an illness we believe is caused by Agent Orange 
You won t need to show that the problem started during or got worse because of your military service. This is because we believe that certain illnesses are the result of exposure to herbicides. We refer to these as presumptive diseases. Review our list of diseases related to Agent Orange When you file your claim , you'll need to submit : that shows you have an Agent Orange related illness A medical record And you'll need to submit a military record that shows you : Served in the Republic of Vietnam for any length of time between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975, or Served in or near the Korean Demilitarized Zone for any length of time between September 1 , 1967, and August 31 , 1971, or Were aboard a U.S. military vessel that entered the inland waterways of Vietnam , or Served aboard a vessel operating not more than 12 nautical miles seaward from the demarcation line of the waters of Vietnam and Cambodia as detailed in Public Law 116 - 23, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019 , or Were exposed to herbicides in a location other than Vietnam or the Korean Demilitarized Zone Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation 
If you have an illness that s not on the list of Agent Orange related diseases, but you believe was caused by Agent Orange 
You ll need to : Provide scientific and medical evidence that the condition is related to exposure to Agent Orange , or Show that the problem started during or got worse because of your military service Scientific proof may include an article from a medical journal or a published research study. When you file your claim , you'll need to submit a medical record that shows : You have a current disability , and There's a connection between Agent Orange exposure and your current disability And you'll need to submit a military record that shows you : Served in the Republic of Vietnam for any length of time between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975, or Served in or near the Korean Demilitarized Zone for any length of time between September 1 , 1967, and August 31 , 1971, or Came into contact with Agent Orange in a location other than Vietnam or the Korean Demilitarized Zone Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation 
Get more information 
Review the Veterans compensation benefits rate tables Contact us if you have questions : Call the Agent Orange help line at 800 - 749 - 8387 , or Send an email to GW/AOHelpline@vba.va.gov Note: Please be ready to give us your name, email address, telephone number, and VA file number or Social Security number. If you think you may have had contact with Agent Orange or other herbicides while serving in the military , you can request a health exam. Get an Agent Orange Registry health exam 
You may have had contact with Agent Orange if you served in any of these ways 
In Vietnam or Korea Between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975, in Vietnam, or between September 1 , 1967, and August 31 , 1971, in or near the DMZ On U.S. Navy and Coast Guard ships or other vessels in or near Vietnam Between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975 On Thailand military bases Between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975 On C-123 airplanes Between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975 In testing and storage areas outside of Vietnam Between 1944 and a yet - to - be - determined date 

title : Change Your VA Direct Deposit Information | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Change your VA direct deposit information 
Change your VA direct deposit information for disability compensation, pension benefits, or education benefits online. 
How can I change my VA direct deposit information online? 
This depends on the type of benefits you're receiving. You can change your information for disability compensation and pension benefits by updating your VA.gov profile. To change your information for GI Bill and other education benefits , you'll need to sign in to eBenefits. 
Disability compensation and pension benefit payments 

We're testing out the direct deposit feature on VA.gov 
We're in the process of bringing direct deposit to VA.gov. This feature isn't available to everyone right now. If you see the direct deposit feature in your profile , you can update your direct deposit information from there. If you don t see this feature in your profile , please go to eBenefits and sign in to change your direct deposit information. Note: You ll need your bank s routing number as well as your account number. 
To cancel your direct deposit payments, switch from paper checks to direct deposit, or change the address on your paper checks 
Please call us at 800 - 827 - 1000. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. ET. Or go to your nearest VA regional office. 
Education benefits 

You ll need to sign in to eBenefits to change your VA direct deposit and contact information online. 
To use this feature , you'll need a Premium DS Logon account. Your My HealtheVet or ID.me credentials won t work on the eBenefits website. Go to eBenefits to sign in, register, or upgrade your DS Logon account to Premium. Go to eBenefits to change your information Note: You'll need your bank's name, address, phone number, and routing number as well as your account number. 
Are there other ways to change my VA direct deposit or contact information? 
Yes. You can change your information by mail or phone. 
By mail 
Fill out a VA Direct Deposit Enrollment VA Form 24 - 0296. Download VA Form 24 - 0296 PDF Mail the completed form to : Department of Veterans Affairs125 S. Main Street , Suite BMuskogee , OK 74401 - 7004 
By phone 
Call us at 800 - 827 - 1000 TTY : 800 - 829 - 4833. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. ET. 
Change your address through your VA.gov profile 
You can sign in to VA.gov and change your address or other contact information in your VA.gov profile. This will update your information across disability compensation, pension benefits, claims and appeals, Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VR&E, and VA health care. Find out how to change your address on file with VA 
Should I contact VA if I have other changes to my information? 
Yes. It s important to update your information with us if you change your marital status, have a baby, adopt a child, or experience any other life change that could affect your rating or payment. 
If you move or change your mailing address 
Make sure to update your contact information so we send information about your benefits and services as well as any prescriptions, lab test results, or appointment reminders you may need to the right location. You can change your address and other contact information in your VA.gov profile. This will update your contact information across disability compensation, pension benefits, claims and appeals, Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VR&E, and VA health care. Find out how to change your address on file with VA 
If you have a disability rating of 30% or higher 
You may be able to add eligible dependents to your VA disability compensation to get a higher payment also called a benefit rate. Find out how to add eligible dependents 
If your disability gets worse 
You can file a claim for an increase in benefits. File for a VA disability increase 

title : Special Claims | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Special claims 
Do you have a disability that isn t listed on this site as being linked to military service? You may still be able to get disability compensation payments or other benefits. If you re a Veteran with a disability we ve concluded is the result of an illness or injury caused or made worse by your active - duty service called a service - connected disability , you may be able to get special compensation to help with disabilities like the ones listed below. Automobile allowance and adaptive equipmentIf your service - connected disability prevents you from driving, find out if you can get money to help buy a specially equipped vehicle or make needed changes to your existing vehicle. Birth defects linked to Agent OrangeIf you were exposed to specific chemicals while serving in Vietnam, Thailand, or the Korean Demilitarized Zone , and your child has spina bifida or other birth defects , your child may be eligible for disability benefits. Replacing damaged clothingIf your clothing s been damaged by your prosthetic or orthopedic device or by medicine you re taking for a skin condition find out if you can get money to help buy new clothes. Recovery from surgery or an immobilizing disability convalescence If you re recovering from surgery or other treatment that s left you unable to move , find out if you can get temporary disability payments or other benefits. Dental careIf you re a Veteran, find out if you can get dental care through VA. Time spent in a hospitalIf you spent time in a VA or VA - approved hospital for a service - connected disability, find out if you can get benefits like disability payments for that time. Being unable to work Individual Unemployability If you can t work because of your service - connected disability , find out if you can get increased disability payments. Title 38 U.S.C. 1151 disabilitiesIf you suffered an added disability while getting VA medical care or taking part in a VA program designed to help you find, get, or keep a job, find out if you can get disability payments. Immediate help for temporary disability needs prestabilization If you recently ended your active military service and you have a service - connected disability, find out if you can get temporary disability payments or other benefits right away. 

title : VA Agent Orange Registry Exam | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
VA Agent Orange Registry exam 
If you think you had contact with Agent Orange, an herbicide used to clear trees and plants during the Vietnam War, or other herbicides while serving in the military , you can request a VA Agent Orange Registry health exam. Even if you don t have a known illness , the exam could alert you to illnesses that may be related to contact with herbicides. By being part of this registry , you re also helping your fellow Veterans by giving us information so we can better understand and serve those affected by Agent Orange related illnesses. 
Can I get an Agent Orange Registry health exam? 
You can get an Agent Orange Registry health exam if you served in any of the ways listed below. You must have served in one of these ways : In Vietnam between 1962 and 1975 for any length of time, including in the inland waterways Brown Water Navy and within the 12-mile territorial seas Blue Water Navy, or In Korea in a unit in or near the Demilitarized Zone DMZ anytime between April 1 , 1968, and August 31 , 1971, or In Thailand U.S. Air Force Veterans on Royal Thai Air Force RTAF bases near U - Tapao, Ubon, Nakhon Phanom, Udorn, Takhli, Korat, and Don Muang near the air base perimeter anytime between February 28 , 1961, and May 7 , 1975, or In Thailand U.S. Army Veterans as perimeter security personnel on RTAF bases in Thailand anytime between February 28 , 1961, and May 7 , 1975, or In Thailand U.S. Army Veterans on some small Army installations in Thailand anytime between February 28 , 1961, and May 7 , 1975 if you were a member of a military police MP unit or assigned a job with duty placing you at or near the base perimeter , or In other locations , but you had contact with herbicides during a military operation or while testing, transporting, or spraying herbicides for military purposes Learn about herbicide tests and storage outside Vietnam 
Who s covered? 
Veterans 
How do I get these benefits? 
To schedule your exam , contact your local VA environmental health coordinator. If you qualify , you won t have to pay anything for this exam. It s free for qualified Veterans. Find a VA environmental health coordinator near you 
What should I expect at the exam? 
The exam will include : Your history of contact with Agent Orange and other herbicides Your health history including any major illnesses or surgeries you may have had A physical exam that may be needed like blood tests, X - rays, or other imaging tests Medical tests A VA health care provider will go over your exam and test results with you. You ll also get a letter with the details of your results. 
What else should I know about the exam? 
You should know that : This exam isn t a VA claim exam also known as a compensation and pension, or C&P, exam. And you don t need to have this exam to get other VA benefits. To get disability benefits , you ll need to file a claim. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation You don t need to sign up for the VA health care system to get a registry exam. The exam is based on your memory of service, not on your military records. The exam will not confirm if you had contact with Agent Orange. You can get another free registry exam if you have a new illness in the future. Your family members can t get an Agent Orange Registry health exam. The exam is only for qualified Veterans. 
How do I make an appointment for an Agent Orange Registry health exam? 
Contact your local VA environmental health coordinator 
Get more information 
Learn more about the Agent Orange Registry health exam 

title : GI Bill Eligibility | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
GI Bill and other education benefit eligibility 
Learn about GI Bill eligibility requirements and find out if you can get these benefits. VA education benefits can help you pay your tuition, pick out a school, choose a career, and more. If you re an active - duty service member or Veteran, a member of the National Guard or Reserves, or a qualified survivor or dependent, find out if you can get VA education benefits through the GI Bill and other educational assistance programs. 
Can I get VA education benefits through the Post-9/11 GI Bill? 
You may be able to get benefits through the Post-9/11 GI Bill if you ve served on active duty for at least 90 days, whether continuous all at once or interrupted for shorter periods over time, after September 10 , 2001. Learn more about the Post-9/11 GI Bill 
Can I get VA education benefits through the Montgomery GI Bill? 
You may be eligible for benefits through one of our 2 Montgomery GI Bill programs. 
Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty (MGIB-AD) 
You can get benefits through MGIB - AD if you served at least 2 years on active duty and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Were honorably discharged , and Have a high school diploma, GED, or 12 hours of college credit , and Meet other requirements Learn more about MGIB - AD 
Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) 
You can get benefits through MGIB - SR if you re a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard Reserves, Army National Guard, or Air National Guard, and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Have either a 6-year service obligation you agreed to serve 6 years in the Selected Service , or Are an officer in the Selected Reserve who agreed to serve 6 years in addition to your initial service obligation , and Meet other requirements Learn more about MGIB - SR 
Can I get VA education benefits through other programs? 
You may be able to get help paying for school tuition, testing fees, and advanced licensing and certifications through other VA educational assistance programs. You may also be able to get entrepreneurship training to help start or improve a small business. Learn more about advanced training and certifications Learn about other educational assistance programs 
Can I get Educational and Career Counseling through VA? 
You may be able to get Educational and Career Counseling also called Chapter 36 if you ll be discharged from active duty within 6 months. You may also qualify for these services if you separated from active duty not more than 1 year ago, didn t receive a dishonorable discharge, and qualify as a Veteran for educational assistance under a VA educational program. Learn more about Educational and Career Counseling 
Are there any related benefits I may also be able to get? 
If you have a service - connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working , you may be eligible for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment benefits and services like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. Find out if you qualify for Vocational Rehab and Employment 
What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge? 
If you ve received one of these discharge statuses , you may not be eligible for VA benefits. There are 2 ways you can try to qualify : Find out how to apply for a discharge upgradeLearn about the VA Character of Discharge review process 
Can my spouse or dependent children get VA education benefits? 
In some cases , the dependent or surviving spouse and children of a Veteran can get educational assistance through a GI Bill program. Learn more about Survivors and Dependents Assistance Also , if you haven t used all of your Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits , you may be able to transfer up to 36 months of benefits to your spouse or a dependent child. Learn more about transferring benefits If you have a service - connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working , your dependent family members may be eligible for Educational and Career Counseling and other support through the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program. Learn more about vocational rehab services for dependent family members Learn more about how to apply for education benefits Note: To apply for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment or educational and career counseling benefits and services , you ll need to use a different application. Find out how to apply for Vocational Rehab and Employment Learn more about Educational and Career Counseling 

title : About VA Insurance Options And Eligibility | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
About VA insurance options and eligibility 
Find out which VA insurance programs may be right for you as a Veteran, service member, spouse, or dependent child. 
How do I know which life insurance program I m eligible for? 
Different programs cover Veterans VGLI, service members SGLI, and family members FSGLI. You may also be able to get short - term financial coverage through TSGLI to help you recover from a traumatic severe injury. And if you re disabled because of an injury or illness caused or made worse by your active service , you may be able to get coverage through S - DVI to continue your life insurance beyond 2 years after you leave the military. Note: If you re ending your military tour of duty soon , you ll need to get new coverage quickly. In some cases , you must act within 120 days of leaving the military to be sure there s no break in your coverage. 
VA life insurance options 
Servicemembers Group Life Insurance SGLI Get group life insurance while you re serving. Family Servicemembers Group Life Insurance FSGLI Add coverage for your spouse and dependent children children who rely on you for financial support. Traumatic Injury Protection TSGLI Get short - term financial support to help you recover from a severe injury. Veterans Group Life Insurance VGLI Get group life insurance once you ve ended your service. Service - Disabled Veterans Insurance S - DVI If you re disabled because of an injury or illness caused or made worse by your active service , continue your life insurance beyond 2 years after you leave the military. Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance VMLI If you have a severe service - connected disability , get mortgage protection insurance for a home that s been adapted to meet your needs. 

title : Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty (MGIB-AD) | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty (MGIB-AD) 
The Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty MGIB - AD can help you pay for education and training programs. If you ve served at least 2 years on active duty , find out if you qualify for the MGIB - AD program. 
Am I eligible for education benefits through the MGIB-AD program? 
You can get education benefits through this program if you were honorably discharged and you meet the requirements of one of the categories below. 
One of these categories must describe you 

Category I 
All of these are true. You: Have a high school diploma, GED, or 12 hours of college credit , and Entered active duty for the first time after June 30 , 1985 , and Had your military pay reduced by $100 a month for the first 12 months of service And at least one of these is true. You served continuously without a break for : 3 years , or 2 years if that was your agreement when you enlisted , or if you entered the Selected Reserve within a year of leaving active duty called the 2 by 4 program 4 years 
Category II 
All of these are true. You: Have a high school diploma, GED, or 12 hours of college credit , and Entered active duty before January 1 , 1977 or before January 2 , 1978, under a delayed enlistment program contracted before January 1 , 1977 , and Served at least 1 day between October 19 , 1984, and June 30 , 1985, and stayed on active duty through June 30 , 1988 or through June 30 , 1987, if you entered the Selected Reserve within 1 year of leaving active duty and served 4 years , and Had at least 1 day of entitlement left under the Vietnam Era GI Bill Chapter 34 as of December 31 , 1989 
Category III 
All of these are true. You: Have a high school diploma, GED, or 12 hours of college credit , and Don t qualify for MGIB under categories I or II , and Had your military pay reduced by $1,200 before separation And one of these is true. You: Were on active duty on September 30 , 1990 , and involuntarily separated not by your choice after February 2 , 1991, or Involuntarily separated on or after November 30 , 1993 , or Chose to voluntarily separate under either the Voluntary Separation Incentive VSI program or the Special Separation Benefit SSB program 
Category IV 
Both of these are true. You: Have a high school diploma, GED, or 12 hours of college credit , and Had military pay reduced by $100 a month for 12 months or made a $1,200 lump - sum contribution meaning you paid it all at once And one of these is true. You: Were on active duty on October 9 , 1996 , had money left in a VEAP account on that date, and chose MGIB before October 9 , 1997 , or Entered full - time National Guard duty under title 32, USC, between July 1 , 1985, and November 28 , 1989 , and chose MGIB between October 9 , 1996, and July 9 , 1997 
What benefits can I get? 
You may get up to 36 months of education benefits. We ll pay the benefits monthly. The amount you ll receive depends on these factors : Your length of service , and The type of educational or training program you choose , and Your category as defined above , and Whether you qualify for a college fund or kicker , and How much you ve paid into the $600 Buy - Up program Learn more about the $600 Buy - Up program Note: You usually have 10 years to use your MGIB - AD benefits. This may change depending on your situation. 
How do I get these benefits? 
Follow the steps below to apply for these benefits. 
Make sure we've approved your program 
Before you enroll , contact the school or use the GI Bill Comparison Tool to find out if we ve approved your program for VA educational benefits. If you have questions , call us at 888-GIBILL-1 888 - 442 - 4551. We're here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. ET. If you have hearing loss , call TTY : 711. Or submit a question through the GI Bill website. Use the GI Bill Comparison Tool Ask a question online Note: If you want to enroll in a program that we haven t approved , you ll need to ask the school to request approval. We can t take any action until an official from your school not you requests approval. If we don t approve your program , you ll have to pay all costs at the school, including tuition and fees. 
Apply for benefits 
You can submit your Application for VA Benefits VA Form 22 - 1990 online. Apply online now You can also apply by mail, in person, or with the help of a trained professional. Learn more about other ways to apply 
Ask your school or training program to certify your enrollment 
The certifying official may be someone in your school's financial aid, Veterans affairs, registrar, admissions, or counseling office. For on - the - job training or an apprenticeship , the official may be someone in your school's training, finance, or human resources office. Note: You'll then need to verify your enrollment at the end of each month to keep receiving payments. You can verify your enrollment online through our Web Automated Verification system called " WAVE " or by phone by calling 877 - 823 - 2378. Verify your enrollment online 
How can I use my MGIB-AD education benefits? 
You can use your GI Bill benefits in many ways to advance your education and training. Find out how to use your GI Bill benefits In some cases , we may help you pay for : Remedial courses classes some students must take to build up their basic skills in math, reading, or English before they can take regular college courses Deficiency courses classes some students must take in order to be admitted to a certain college Refresher courses brief courses that help people review and improve their knowledge in a certain subject area See current payment rates 
Can I qualify for more than one VA education benefit? 
Yes. You may qualify for more than one education benefit. If you re eligible for more than one , you ll need to decide which to receive. You can t receive benefits under more than one program at a time. We can help you make this decision. Call us at 888-GI - BILL-1 888 - 442 - 4551 , Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. ET. If you have hearing loss , call TTY : 711. GI Bill is a registered trademark of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs VA. The absence of the registration symbol does not constitute a waiver of VA s trademark rights in that phrase. Read our Terms of Use 

title : Eligibility For Veterans Pension | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Eligibility for Veterans Pension 
The Veterans Pension program provides monthly payments to wartime Veterans who meet certain age or disability requirements, and who have income and net worth within certain limits. Find out if you re eligible for this benefit. 
Am I eligible for Veterans Pension benefits from VA? 
If you meet the VA pension eligibility requirements listed below , you may be eligible for the Veterans Pension program. Both of these must be true : You didn t receive a dishonorable discharge , and Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth includes all personal property you own except your house, your car, and most home furnishings, minus any debt you owe. Your net worth includes the net worth of your spouse. Find out about Veterans Pension rates And at least one of these must be true about your service. You: Started on active duty before September 8 , 1980 , and you served at least 90 days on active duty with at least 1 day during wartime , or Started on active duty as an enlisted person after September 7 , 1980, and served at least 24 months or the full period for which you were called or ordered to active duty with some exceptions with at least 1 day during wartime, or Were an officer and started on active duty after October 16 , 1981, and you hadn t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months And at least one of these must be true. You: Are at least 65 years old , or Have a permanent and total disability , or Are a patient in a nursing home for long - term care because of a disability , or Are getting Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income 
How do I know if I served under an eligible wartime period? 
Under current law , we recognize the following wartime periods to decide eligibility for VA pension benefits : Mexican Border period May 9 , 1916, to April 5 , 1917, for Veterans who served in Mexico, on its borders, or in adjacent waters World War I April 6 , 1917, to November 11 , 1918 World War II December 7 , 1941, to December 31 , 1946 Korean conflict June 27 , 1950, to January 31 , 1955 Vietnam War era (February 28, 1961, to May 7, 1975, for Veterans who served in the Republic of Vietnam during that period. August 5, 1964, to May 7, 1975, for Veterans who served outside the Republic of Vietnam.) Gulf War August 2 , 1990, through a future date to be set by law or presidential proclamation 
What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge? 
If you ve received one of these discharge statuses , you may not be eligible for VA pension benefits. There are 2 ways you can try to qualify : Find out how to apply for a discharge upgradeLearn about the VA Character of Discharge review process 

title : National Call To Service Program | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
National Call to Service program 
If you performed a period of national service , you may qualify for the National Call to Service program, which allows you to choose an education benefit as an alternative to the Montgomery GI Bill MGIB. Find out if you qualify. 
Am I eligible for this benefit? 
You qualify for the National Call to Service program if you meet the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You completed your initial entry training and then continued to serve on active duty for 15 months in a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary of Defense , and Then , without a break in service , you served either an additional period of active duty as determined by the Secretary of Defense or a period of 24 months in active status in the Selected Reserve And one of these must be true : Without a break in service , you then spent the rest of your obligated service : On active duty in the Armed Forces , or In the Selected Reserve , or In the Individual Ready Reserve , or In AmeriCorps, or another domestic national service program jointly designated by the Secretary of Defense 
Who s covered? 
Veterans 
What benefits can I get? 
You may choose one of these : A cash bonus of $5,000 , or Repayment of a qualifying student loan not more than $18,000 , or Educational assistance equal to the 3-year monthly MGIB rate for 12 months , or Educational assistance equal to 50% of the less - than-3-year monthly MGIB rate for 36 months 
How do I get these benefits? 
Apply online now If you enlist under the National Call to Service program , you don t qualify for MGIB, unless you reenlist at a later date for an additional period of service. Contact your recruiter to see if you qualify and to enroll in the National Call to Service program. This benefit affects your service contract. 
Get more information 
National Call to Service program pamphlet PDF This program is administered by VA for the Department of Defense. 

title : Ionizing Radiation Exposure | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Ionizing radiation exposure 
Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses including some cancers believed to be caused by contact with radiation during military service. 
Can I get disability benefits from VA? 
You may be able to get disability benefits if you didn t receive a dishonorable discharge and you meet the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You have an illness that s on our list of illnesses believed to be caused by radiation or that doctors say may be caused by radiation , and Your illness started within a certain period of time as shown along with the list of illnesses See the list of radiation - related illnesses And you must have had contact with ionizing radiation in one of these ways while serving in the military. You: Were part of atmospheric nuclear weapons testing , or Served in the postwar occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki , or Were a prisoner of war POW in Japan , or Worked as an x - ray technician, in a reactor plant, or in nuclear medicine or radiography while on active duty or during active or inactive duty for training in the Reserves, or Did tasks like those of a Department of Energy (DOE) employee that make them a member of the Special Exposure Cohort (See 42 U.S.C. 7384L(14)) You may also qualify for disability benefits if you served in at least one of the below locations and capacities. You were: Part of underground nuclear weapons testing at Amchitka Island, Alaska, or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Paducah, Kentucky , or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Portsmouth, Ohio , or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Area K-25 at Oak Ridge, Tennessee 
Who s covered? 
Veterans 
What kind of disability benefits can I get? 
Health care Compensation payments 
How do I get these benefits? 
You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation and provide the evidence supporting documents listed below : Medical records showing that you ve been diagnosed with one of the illnesses on our list of those believed to be caused by radiation or that your doctor states may be caused by radiation exposure , and Service records showing that you were part of one of the radiation risk activities described above Note: When you file your claim , we ll ask the military branch that you served with or the Defense Threat Reduction Agency to give us a range of how much radiation they think you may have come into contact with. We ll use the highest level of the range they report to decide on your benefits. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation 

title : Exposure Through Project 112 Or Project SHAD | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Exposure through Project 112 or Project SHAD 
If you were a part of chemical and biological warfare testing through Project 112 or Project Shipboard Hazard and Defense SHAD , you may be at risk for certain illnesses. The Department of Defense s Deseret Test Center in Fort Douglas, Utah, conducted this testing, which took place aboard ships and on land in various locations from 1962 to 1974. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits. 
Can I get disability benefits from VA? 
You may be able to get disability benefits if you meet both of the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You were part of Projects 112 or SHAD testing from 1962 to 1974 , and You have an illness believed to be caused by the testing 
Who s covered? 
Veterans Qualified survivors 
What kind of disability benefits can I get? 
Health care Compensation payments 
How do I get these benefits? 
You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation. You can call the VA Special Issues Helpline at 800 - 749 - 8387. Or you can file a claim online. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation If you were part of Projects 112 or SHAD from 1962 to 1974 and want to know more about a certain test site, ship, or unit , see the declassified Department of Defense fact sheets. Get declassified Department of Defense fact sheets If you have a question about the tests , if you have any information that can help show you were part of them including whether you may have been part of them or contact the Department of Defense at 800 - 497 - 6261. 

title : VA decision reviews and appeals | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
VA decision reviews and appeals 

Mark your calendar 
You have 1 year from the date on your decision to request a decision review, unless you have a fiduciary claim or a multiple party claim. See if one of these rare situations applies to you 
Decision review options 
Add new and relevant evidence file a Supplemental Claim Ask for a new look from a senior reviewer request a Higher - Level Review Appeal to a Veterans Law Judge request a Board Appeal 
Add new and relevant evidence 
Download VA Form 20 - 0995: Supplemental Claim PDF When you choose to file a Supplemental Claim , you re adding new evidence that supportsyour case or identifying evidence for review. A reviewer will look at all the evidence anddetermine whether it changes the decision. Learn how to file a Supplemental Claim 
Can I file a Supplemental Claim? 
You can file a Supplemental Claim within 1 year of a decision if you have new evidence. But you can t file a Supplemental Claim if you have a fiduciary claim or you re one of multiple people claiming the same benefit this is rare. See if one of these rare situations applies to you 
Ask for a new look from a senior reviewer 
Download VA Form 20 - 0996: Higher - Level Review PDF When you choose to request a Higher - Level Review , you re asking for another review of the same evidence. A seniorreviewer will take another look at your case and determinewhether the decision can be changed based on a difference of opinion or an error that VA made. Learn how to request a Higher - Level Review 
Can I request a Higher-Level Review? 
You can request a Higher - Level Review of an initial claim or Supplemental Claimdecision. This option isn t available after a Higher - Level Review or Board Appeal. 
Appeal to a Veterans Law Judge 
Download VA Form 10182: Board Appeal PDF A judge at the Board of Veterans Appeals in Washington, D.C., will review your case. Learn more about how to request a Board Appeal 
Can I request a Board Appeal? 
You can request a Board Appeal after an initial claim, Supplemental Claim, or Higher - Level Review decision. You can t request 2 Board Appeals in a row. 
After a Board decision 
If you disagree with the Board s decision and have new and relevant evidence that supports your case , you can file a Supplemental Claim. You can also appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. Learn more about your options after a Board decision 
What happens next? 
Find out what happens after you request a decision review You don t need to do anything while you wait unless VA sends you a letter asking for more information. If VA schedules exams for you , be sure not to miss them. Track the status of your claim or appeal 
What if I need help? 
A Veterans Service Organization or VA - accredited attorney or agent can help you request a decision review. Get help requesting a decision review 
What if I have more questions? 
Get answers to frequently asked questions about decision reviews. Go to FAQs 

title : Schedule And View VA Appointments Online | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Schedule and view VA appointments online 
With our VA Appointments tools , you can schedule some VA health care appointments online. You can also view details about upcoming appointments and organize your health calendar. Find out if you re eligible, and how to sign up to begin using these tools on our My HealtheVet health management portal. 
How do I talk to someone right now? 
If you're a Veteran in crisis or concerned about one , connect with our caring, qualified Veterans Crisis Line responders for confidential help. Many of them are Veterans themselves. This service is private, free, and available 24/7. To connect with a Veterans Crisis Line responder anytime day or night : Call 800 - 273 - 8255 , then select 1. Start a confidential Veterans chat. Text 838255. If you have hearing loss , call TTY : 800 - 799 - 4889. You can also : Call 911. Go to the nearest emergency room. Go directly to your nearest VA medical center. It doesn't matter what your discharge status is or if you're enrolled in VA health care. Find your nearest VA medical center Please note: The fastest way to make all your VA appointments is usually to call the VA health facility where you want to receive care. If you can t keep an existing appointment , please contact the facility as soon as possible to reschedule or cancel. Find your VA health facility s phone number 
View your VA appointments online 

Schedule or cancel a VA appointment online 

How can VA Appointments tools help me manage my health care? 
VA Appointments tools offer a secure, web - based way to schedule, view, and organize your VA appointments online. You can use these tools to : Schedule some of your VA medical appointments online Reschedule and cancel appointments made online View appointments on your health calendar Find the location of the VA facility for your appointments Set up email reminders for upcoming appointments Print a list of your future appointments Look up past appointments from the last 2 years Add non - VA appointments to your health calendar 
Am I eligible to use the VA Appointments tools? 
You can use these tools if you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Are enrolled in VA health care , and Are scheduling your appointment with a VA health facility that uses online scheduling , and Have had an appointment at that VA health facility within the last 2 years Find out how to apply for VA health care And , you must have one of these free accounts : A Premium My HealtheVet account , or A Premium DS Logon account used for eBenefits and milConnect , or that you can create here on VA.gov A verified ID.me account Learn about the 3 different My HealtheVet account types 
How do I know if my VA health facility uses online scheduling? 
You can check our list of VA facilities that are currently using the online scheduling tool. We hope to expand the number of VA facilities and types of appointments in the future. View a list of VA facilities currently using online scheduling 
What types of VA medical appointments can I schedule online? 
This will depend on the VA health facility where you re receiving care. You may be able to schedule outpatient appointments for : Primary care Mental health Optometry Audiology Check with the specific facility where you re receiving care to ask about scheduling appointments online. See which VA facilities currently use online scheduling Find a VA health facility 
Can I use this tool to schedule non-VA appointments? 
No. Learn more about getting care from non - VA providers. 
Can I schedule appointments through VA Secure Messaging? 
If you use Secure Messaging with your VA health care team , you may be able to use this service to schedule and cancel appointments. Learn more about Secure Messaging 
Will my personal health information be protected? 
Yes. This is a secure website. We follow strict security policies and practices to protect your personal health information. And only you and your VA health care team will have access to your secure messages. If you print or download any messages , you ll need to take responsibility for protecting that information. Get tips for protecting your personal health information 
What if I have more questions? 
You can get answers to your questions about these tools within our My HealtheVet web portal. Read VA Appointments FAQs You can also contact the My HealtheVet Help Desk. Find out how to contact us online Or call us at 877 - 327 - 0022 TTY : 800 - 877 - 8339. We re here Monday through Friday , 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. CT. 

title : Undergraduate And Graduate Degrees | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
Undergraduate and graduate degrees 
Find out if you can use GI Bill benefits for college as a Veteran, service member, or qualified dependent. Learn about payment rates for undergraduate and graduate degree courses at institutions of higher learning like a 4-year university, community college, or graduate school. 
How do you decide what my payments will be? 
We decide your payment amounts based on the number of classes you go to and the hours spent in those classes. For example , for most undergraduate degrees , a college considers : 12 or more hours full time Between 9 and 11 hours three - quarter time Between 6 and 8 hours half time Less than 6 hours reimbursable at a rate that s no more than the tuition and fees charged for the course 
How much does VA cover for graduate-level programs? 
The school decides how to rate each hour. For example , if a graduate program at your school considers a 2-hour class full time , we ll pay you the full - time rate. 
Can I take classes at more than one school at a time? 
You can take classes at more than one school under the GI Bill as long as : The classes at both schools count toward your degree , and The school granting your degree considers the classes at the second school to be required in order to get your degree Note : The GI Bill won t pay you to take the same class twice unless you get a failing grade in a class that the school requires for graduation. 
Can I use the GI Bill to pay for classes toward more than one degree? 
Yes. After earning your first degree , you can use any GI Bill benefits you have left over to pay for classes for another degree. 
How does VA make the payments? 
We issue payments after each month s classes. For example , you ll get the payment for November classes in December. For the Post-9/11 GI Bill , we pay : Tuition and fees directly to the school Money for books to you at the beginning of the term Housing allowance to you at the end of each month 

title : VA Vocational Rehabilitation (Chapter 31) | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
VA Vocational Rehabilitation (Chapter 31) 
If you have a service - connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working , the VA Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VR&E program also referred to as Chapter 31 can help. Find out if you re eligible and how to apply for vocational rehabilitation benefits and services, like help exploring employment options and any required training needs. In some cases , your family members may also be eligible for certain benefits. 
For service members and Veterans with service-connected disabilities 
VR&E programs for service members and VeteransExplore VR&E support - and - services tracks for help learning new skills, finding a new job, starting a business, getting educational counseling, or returning to your former job. EligibilityFind out if you can get VR&E benefits and services as a service member or Veteran. How to applyFind out how to apply for VR&E benefits and services as a service member or Veteran. Accessing VR&E through the Integrated Disability Evaluation System IDES If you're wounded, injured, or fall ill while serving and can't perform your duties , find out how you can access VR&E services as soon as possible through IDES. 
For family members of service members and Veterans with service-connected disabilities 
Dependent family membersFind out if you're eligible for certain counseling services, training, and education benefits. 
More helpful resources 
VetSuccess on CampusFind out if our counselors can help you transition from military to college life. External resourcesGet links to more resources outside VA that can help you in your job search. 

title : File a Supplemental Claim with new evidence | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
File a Supplemental Claim with new evidence 
You must add evidence VA didn t have before that s relevant to your case. 
Can I file a Supplemental Claim? 
You can file a Supplemental Claim within 1 year of a decision if you have new evidence, unless one of these rare situations applies to you. You have a : Fiduciary claim , orMultiple party claim 
How long does it take VA to make a decision? 

What s considered new and relevant evidence? 
New evidence is information that VA didn t have before the last decision. Relevant evidence is information that could prove or disprove something about your case. You can submit evidence yourself , or you can ask VA to get evidence, like medical records, that s at a VA medical center or other federal facility. VA can t accept your Supplemental Claim without new and relevant evidence. 
How do I file a Supplemental Claim with new evidence? 
To file a Supplemental Claim , fill out the Decision Review Request: Supplemental Claim VA Form 20 - 0995. Download VA Form 20 - 0995 PDF 
Select a benefit type in Part I on the form 
The most common benefit type is compensation , but if you re unsure, check your VA decision. You can t select multiple benefit types. You must complete a separate form for each type. 
List the issue(s) you want VA to review in Part II on the form 
You can include all or just some of the issues VA decided. You must list the issue you disagree with and the VA decision date. 
Gather new and relevant evidence to submit 
You must add new and relevant evidence supporting documents or identify evidence you d like VA to gather for review. List the location of VA evidence in Part III. VA can help you get evidence if it s at a VA medical center or other federal facility. For more details , see the instructions for completing the form. What if I don t have any new and relevant evidence? If you don t have evidence to submit , please select another review option. Learn more about the review options 
Apply 
Fill out the Decision Review Request: Supplemental Claim VA Form 20 - 0995. Download VA Form 20 - 0995 PDF By mail Send the completed form and any supporting documents to the benefit office that matches the benefit type you selected on the form. Compensation Department of Veterans AffairsClaims Intake CenterPO Box 4444Janesville , WI 53547 - 4444 
Pension/Survivors benefits 
If you live in AK, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IA, KS, MN, MT, NB, NV, NM, ND, OK, OR, SD, TX, UT, WA, WY, Mexico, Central America, South America, or the Caribbean Department of Veterans AffairsClaims Intake CenterAttention : St. Paul Pension CenterPO Box 5365Janesville , WI 53547 - 5365Fax : 844 - 655 - 1604 
Pension/Survivors benefits 
If you live in CT, DL, FL, GA, ME, MD, MA, NH, NJ, NY, NC, PA, RI, SC, VT, VA, WV, DC, Puerto Rico, or Canada Department of Veterans AffairsClaims Intake CenterAttention : Philadelphia Pension CenterPO Box 5206Janesville , WI 53547 - 5206Fax : 844 - 655 - 1604 
Pension/Survivors benefits 
If you live in AL, AR, IL, IN, KY, LA, MI, MS, MO, OH, TN, or WI Department of Veterans AffairsClaims Intake CenterAttention : Milwaukee Pension CenterPO Box 5192Janesville , WI 53547 - 5192Fax : 844 - 655 - 1604 
National Cemetery Administration 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. 
Education 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. 
Veterans Health Administration 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. 
Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. 
Insurance 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. 
Loan guaranty 
Please refer to yourdecision for instructionson how to submit theform. In personBring your completed form and any supporting documents to a regional benefit office. Find a regional benefit office near you By faxFax your completed form and any supporting documents to 844 - 531 - 7818. You can also ask a regional benefit office for a copy of this form to fill out. Or you can call the VA toll - free hotline at 800 - 827 - 1000, Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. ET , to request a form. 
Mark your calendar 
You have 1 year from the date on your decision to file a Supplemental Claim. 
What happens next? 
Find out what happens after you request a decision review You don t need to do anything while you re waiting unless VA sends you a letter asking for more information. If VA schedules exams for you , be sure not to miss them. Track the status of your claim 
What if I need help? 
A Veterans Service Organization or VA - accredited attorney or agent can help you request a decision review. Get help requesting a decision review 
What if I have more questions? 
Get answers to frequently asked questions about decision reviews. Go to FAQs 

title : VA Health Care | Veterans Affairs#2
document : 
VA health care 
With VA health care , you re covered for regular checkups with your primary care provider and appointments with specialists like cardiologists, gynecologists, and mental health providers. You can access Veterans health care services like home health and geriatric elder care , and you can get medical equipment, prosthetics, and prescriptions. Find out how to apply for and manage the health care benefits you've earned. 
On this page 
Get VA health care Manage your health and benefits More information and resources 
How do I get help if I'm homeless or at risk of becoming homeless? 
We offer many programs and services that may help including free health care and, in some cases, free limited dental care. We can also help you connect with resources in your community, like homeless shelters or faith - based organizations. Find the support you need : Call the National Call Center for Homeless Veterans at 877 - 424 - 3838 for help 24 hours a day , 7 days a week. You ll talk privately with a trained VA counselor for free. Contact your nearest VA medical center and ask to talk with the VA social worker. If you're a female Veteran , ask for the Women Veterans Program Manager. Find the nearest VA medical center Talk with someone right now : If you're a Veteran in crisis or concerned about one , connect with our caring, qualified Veterans Crisis Line responders for confidential help. Many of them are Veterans themselves. This service is private, free, and available 24/7. Chat online with a trained VA staff member 
Get VA health care 
About VA health benefitsLearn how VA health care works and which Veterans health care services we cover. EligibilityFind out if you re eligible for Veterans health care benefits and how priority groups work. How to applyGet instructions for how to prepare and apply for VA health care online, by phone, by mail, or in person. Apply online VA Form 10 - 10EZ Start your Veterans health care application now. After you applyFind out when to expect a decision on your application , and what to do next. Family and caregiver health benefitsSee if you qualify for VA medical benefits as a spouse, surviving spouse, dependent child, or caregiver. 
Manage your health and benefits 
Refill and track your VA prescriptionsOrder a prescription refill and track your shipment online. Use VA Secure MessagingCommunicate privately with your VA health care team through Secure Messaging. Schedule and view your VA appointmentsFind out how to schedule an appointment by phone, online, or through Secure Messaging. View your VA lab and test resultsView, download, and print your labs and test results. Order hearing aid batteries and prosthetic socksOrder these items online for home delivery. Get your VA medical records also called " VA Blue Button" Set up your personal health record and download reports to share with your VA and non - VA doctors. Update your health benefits information VA Form 10 - 10EZR Update your personal, financial, or insurance information after you re enrolled in the VA health care program. Pay your VA copay billPay your VA copay securely online, by phone or mail, or in person and find out what to do if you're struggling to make payments. Check your appeal statusTrack the status of an open VA health care appeal. Get VA travel pay reimbursement Find out how to apply for reimbursement for your travel to a VA health facility. 
More information and resources 
VA health care copay ratesView our current copay rates for different types of care, tests, and medications. Mental health servicesFind out how to access VA mental health services for posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD, psychological effects of military sexual trauma MST, depression, grief, anxiety, and other needs. Specific health needs and conditionsFind out how to get care for specific needs like women's health, and learn about service - related health concerns you should be aware of like Agent Orange - related diseases or Camp Lejeune water contamination. Chemical or hazardous material exposureLearn about health concerns linked to exposures during military service. Learn about the special VA health registries you can join that document Veterans' exposure to Agent Orange, depleted uranium, ionizing radiation, airborne hazards, and other hazardous materials. Veterans programs for health and wellnessExplore VA programs to help you get and stay healthy in both body and mind. Community careIf you re enrolled in VA health care , find out how you may be able to receive care from a provider in your local community through community care. The Affordable Care Act ACA and your VA health care coverageFind out what you need to know about the Affordable Care Act and what it means for Veterans. The Million Veteran ProgramSee if you can be a part of this voluntary research study to better understand the role genes play in our health. Access and quality in VA health careGet information about your VA facility , like how quickly you can be seen and what other Veterans say about their experiences. Patient rights and responsibilitiesRead about your basic rights and responsibilities when you receive care at a VA health facility or live in a VA community living center. 
Other VA benefits and services 
Disability compensation pay Learn how to file a claim for disability compensation and manage your disability benefits. Life insuranceExplore your life insurance options and find out how to apply as a service member, Veteran, or family member. Aid and attendance benefits and housebound allowanceFind out if you can get increased pension pay as a Veteran or surviving spouse who has disabilities. Burial benefits and memorial itemsLearn about Veterans burial benefits, how to plan a burial service, and how to get compensation as a survivor. Education and trainingApply for and manage GI Bill and other education benefits to help pay for college and training programs. 

title : VA Survivors Pension | Veterans Affairs#1
document : 
VA Survivors Pension 
A VA Survivors Pension offers monthly payments to qualified surviving spouses and unmarried dependent children of wartime Veterans who meet certain income and net worth limits set by Congress. Find out if you qualify and how to apply. 
Am I eligible for a VA Survivors Pension as a surviving spouse? 
If you haven t remarried after the Veteran s death , if the deceased Veteran didn t receive a dishonorable discharge and their service meets at least one of the requirements listed below , and you may be eligible for this benefit. At least one of these must be true. The Veteran : Entered active duty on or before September 7 , 1980 , and served at least 90 days on active military service, with at least 1 day during a wartime period , or Entered active duty after September 7 , 1980 , and served at least 24 months or the full period for which they were called or ordered to active duty with some exceptions, with at least 1 day during a wartime period or Was an officer and started on active duty after October 16 , 1981 , and hadn t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months And this must be true for you : Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth equals the value of everything you own except your house, your car, and most home furnishings, minus any debt you owe. 
How do I know if the Veteran served under an eligible wartime period? 
Under current law , we recognize the following wartime periods to decide eligibility for pension benefits : Mexican Border period May 9 , 1916, to April 5 , 1917, for Veterans who served in Mexico, on its borders, or in adjacent waters World War I April 6 , 1917, to November 11 , 1918 World War II December 7 , 1941, to December 31 , 1946 Korean conflict June 27 , 1950, to January 31 , 1955 Vietnam War era (February 28, 1961, to May 7, 1975 for Veterans who served in the Republic of Vietnam during that period. August 5, 1964, to May 7, 1975, for Veterans who served outside of the Republic of Vietnam.) Gulf War August 2 , 1990, through a future date to be set by law or presidential proclamation 
Am I eligible for a VA Survivors Pension as the child of a deceased wartime Veteran? 
If you re unmarried and you meet at least one of the requirements listed below , you may be eligible for this benefit. At least one of these must be true : You re under age 18 , or You re under age 23 and attending a VA - approved school , or You re unable to care for yourself due to a disability that happened before age 18 
How do I apply for a VA Survivors Pension? 
You can apply in any of these ways : 
By mail 
Fill out an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits VA Form 21 - 534EZ. Download VA Form 21 - 534EZ PDF Mail it to the pension management center PMC for your state. Find your PMC 
In person 
Bring your application to a VA regional office near you. Find a VA regional benefit office near you 
With the help of a trained professional 
You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for VA survivors pension benefits. Get help filing your claim 
How long does it take VA to make a decision? 
It depends. We process VA Survivors Pension claims in the order we receive them, unless a claim requires priority processing. 

title : Information and Instructions About Your Certificate of Title#3
document : 
What is a title? 
A Certificate of Title MV-999 is the official proof of ownership for a car, truck, motorcycle, motorboat, travel or utility trailer weighing 1,000 pounds or more, or manufactured home mobile home. The title certificate is used to transfer ownership from one person to another. The title also lists any " lienholders " those from whom the owner borrowed money to purchase the vehicle or manufactured home. It is wise to keep your title certificate in a safe place. Don't keep it in the car or carry it with you. 
Which vehicles must be titled? 
New York State issues a Certificate of Title MV-999 for : most motor vehicles of model year 1973 or newer ; motorboats, model year 1987 or newer, that are 14 feet or longer ; and , manufactured homes , model year 1995 , or newer , that are 8 feet or more in width, or 40 feet or more in length, or cover at least 320 square feet when erected on site. New York State does not issue a title certificate for any motor vehicle of model year 1972 or older, travel or utility trailer that weighs less than 1,000 pounds, or limited used motorcycle including a moped. 
What's the difference between a title and a registration? 
For most owners , a title certificate proves ownership of a car, truck, motorcycle, motorboat, or manufactured home. The title is used to transfer it to another owner. A registration allows a driver to operate a motor vehicle on a public road, or a motorboat on a public waterway. Manufactured homes are not registered. A transferable registration is issued for a 1972 or older motor vehicle, or a 1986 or older motorboat. The transferable portion proves ownership, and is used to sell or give ownership to another person. The registration portion allows the vehicle to be operated on a public road, or a motorboat on a public waterway. 
How do I obtain a title? 
Most often , you automatically apply for a when you first register your motor vehicle or motorboat. Use the form Vehicle Registration / Title Application PDF [1] MV-82, available at any motor vehicle office, by request from a DMV Call Center or by download from the DMV internet site. You must pay the registration and license plate fees, any appropriate sales tax, and the fee for a title certificate $50.00. The same process is followed by a dealership that handles your registration and title application. The dealership will issue you a temporary registration. You will receive your permanent registration, and license plates if requested, when the Department of Motor Vehicles accepts your application. However , New York State title certificates are not issued over the counter. State law requires the DMV to mail a title certificate to the owner, after carefully examining and verifying the proof of ownership submitted with the application. As a result , the title application process may take several weeks to complete. If you do not receive your title certificate by mail within 90 days after you apply , contact a DMV Call Center. Your registration receipt can help verify your vehicle's plate number, make, year and vehicle identification number VIN. When you receive your title , check to see whether the information it contains about your vehicle is correct and agrees with the information on the vehicle registration document. If the title is incorrect , contact the DMV Call Center and ask about obtaining an amended title. If both the registration and title are incorrect , bring them to a motor vehicle office. 
How do I obtain a title if I don't want a registration? 
This is known as a title only transaction. Fill out a Vehicle Registration / Title Application PDF [1] MV-82 or Application for Title PDF [2] MV-82TON, available at any motor vehicle office. It is also available by request from a DMV Call Center or from the DMV Internet Office. When applying only for a title certificate , you must pay the sales tax at a motor vehicle office. Bring your proof of ownership and proof of purchase price. The most commonly accepted proof of purchase price is an Statement of Transaction- Sale or Gift of Motor Vehicle, Trailer, All - Terrain Vehicle ATV, Vessel Boat, or Snowmobile PDF [3] at NY State Department of Tax and Finance DTF-802, available at any motor vehicle office or by from the DMV Internet Office. Both the seller and the buyer must complete the Affidavit of Sale / Statement. Attach your receipt for sales tax payment FS-6 T to your Vehicle Registration / Title Application. Do not send sales tax payments to the Title Bureau. To apply for a title - only because of a, or for a vehicle you will register under the DMV , you may submit a Vehicle Registration / Title Application to any motor vehicle office. For all other title - only transactions , you must mail the following documents to: The DMV Title Bureau, NYS Department of Motor Vehicles, TITLE ONLY , 6 Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY 12228 - 0322. The " Vehicle Registration / Title Application " Proof of ownership including any applicable lien release Proof of sales tax payment Retail Certificate of Sale [MV-50] or a receipt for sales tax payment [FS-6 T ] A salvage branding disclosure for vehicles 8 model years or newer The title certificate fee of $50.00 the title fee for a Manufactured Home is $125 by check or money order, payable to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. 
What vehicles must be titled prior to registration? 
Every vehicle purchased with a Garageman Lien as proof of ownership or any vehicle subject to the DMV Salvage Vehicle Program must receive first be titled before it will be allowed to be registered. An applicant following the Garageman Lien procedure must present ownership documentation that includes a Notice of Lien and Sale PDF [4] MV-901A and a Garageman Affirmation and Bill of Sale PDF [5] MV-901B. An applicant in the Salvage Vehicle program must present a Salvage Certificate MV-907A and anSalvage Examination / Title Application PDF [6] MV-83SAL. For additional information , if needed , contact the DMV Title Services Bureau, telephone 518 486 - 4714. The telephone service is available on weekdays, except Wednesdays and state holidays, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
What proof of ownership will DMV accept? 
When you apply for an original title certificate , you must provide proof ownership signed over to you, proof of sales tax payment, and proof of identity. For a purchase made from a New York State registered dealer , the proof of ownership is a Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin MCO or the vehicle's Certificate of Title MV-999, plus the dealer's Certificate of Sale MV-50. For a casual sale , that is if you made your purchase from an individual or a business that is not a registered dealership , the ownership proof is a transferred Certificate of Title. If your purchase does not qualify for a title certificate , the ownership proof is a transferable registration signed over to you. * If the listed proofs of ownership are not available , contact a DMV Call Center or a motor vehicle office before you make your purchase. Without proper proof of ownership , you will not be issued a New York State Certificate of Title , and you may not be allowed to register your vehicle. * * You may register a vehicle, but not receive a NYS Certificate of Title, if your vehicle's original title certificate that was issued outside New York State is held by a lienholder. To register , your Application for Registration / Title MV-82 must include a certified photocopy of the out - of - state title certificate in your name, or written verification from the out - of - state motor vehicle title authority that you are the vehicle owner and that the other state authority had sent the original title to the lienholder. If you own the vehicle but do not have the certified photocopy or the written verification , it may be registered if you present an out - of - state registration document issued in your name. After the lien is satisfied , you will receive the original out - of - state title certificate from the lienholder. To apply for a original NYS Certificate of Title , you must mail to the DMV Title Bureau: the notice of lien satisfaction, the original out - of - state issued title certificate, and a letter explaining your circumstances. 
What if I need a duplicate title or if my title is lost or stolen? 
A duplicate title is needed if your title certificate has been damaged, lost or stolen. You may apply online [7] or at any motor vehicle office for a duplicate title with no change of address. If you apply at an office , submit an Application For Duplicate Certificate Of Title PDF [8] MV-902, and provide proof of your identity and current address. The fee is $20.00. Your duplicate title will be processed within 72 hours after your application is accepted and will be promptly mailed to you. You also may mail your application to the DMV Title Bureau, with photocopies of your proofs of identity and address and the $20.00 fee by check or money order, payable to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. If you mail the application , please allow added time for postal delivery to the DMV. Please note: As soon as a duplicate title has been processed , the original title and any prior duplicates are no longer valid and may not be used to transfer your vehicle. 
What is a lien, and how is it recorded on my title? 
A " lien " means that someone other than the owner has a security interest in your motor vehicle, motorboat, or manufactured home. This usually is the bank or finance company that loaned you money to pay for its purchase. The lienholder is listed on the title certificate and on the DMV computer records. The lienholder or dealership will complete forms and pay a fee to have the DMV record the lien on your title. As the new owner , you probably will not be involved in filing the lien. The lender cannot charge you the recording fee. A lien recorded on an out - of - state title will automatically be printed on a New York title certificate unless your New York title application includes proof that the loan has been paid in full. If a lienholder unknown to you is listed on your title certificate , contact a DMV Call Center. 
What if a lienholder has the original out-of-state title? 
Unless the lien is satisfied , you can receive a New York registration but not a Certificate of Title. To register , obtain a certified photocopy of the title, or written verification from the other state's motor vehicle title authority that you are the owner, and a letter from the lienholder authorizing you to register the car in New York. To receive a New York State title certificate after the lien is satisfied , you must mail the out - of - state title, the proof of lien satisfaction, and a letter of explanation to the Title Bureau. 
How do I remove a lien from my NY title and get a "clear" title? 
When you have paid your loan in full , the lienholder must promptly send you a proof of lien satisfaction called a " lien release. " This is usually a Notice of Recorded Lien MV-901, marked and endorsed by the lender proving payment. It might also be a letter on the lender's stationery identifying the borrower's name, the vehicle by make, year and vehicle identification number, certifying the date of full payment and release of the security interest, and signed by an officer of the lending institution. Keep this lien release. You will need to give it to a buyer, along with your title certificate, when you transfer ownership. The DMV will accept only the signed, original release. You also may request the DMV Title Bureau to remove the lien from your New York State issued title by mailing the original lien release form or letter, the original title certificate, and a check or money order for $20 payable to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. Photocopies are not accepted. If your address has changed since the title was issued , send proof of your current address examples: a photocopy of your current registration, driver license, or utility bill. A new title certificate that does not indicate the lien will be promptly processed and mailed to you. PLEASE NOTE : You are not required to obtain a clear title after the lien has been satisfied. Keep the original lien release, attach it to your title and give it to the vehicle purchaser when you transfer ownership. 
How do I transfer a title? 
You cannot transfer a title certificate to a new owner if the reverse side of the title is already signed over to you. You first must obtain a title in your own name, then transfer it to the new owner. The DMV will not accept titles with cross - outs, alterations or erasures of any kind. As seller , you must complete the " Transfer by Owner " section on the back of the title. Do not write on or mark the front. Do not fill in any information until you actually make the transfer to the new owner. If you change or correct any information, including signatures or addresses , the title will not be valid. If the title is voided , even if by error , you must obtain a duplicate title see above What If I Need A Duplicate Title or My Title Is Lost Or Stolen? before you can transfer ownership. For motor vehicles that are 10 model years old or newer , the seller must complete the odometer disclosure statement on the back of the title certificate. For vehicles older than 10 model years , odometer disclosure is not required. The Damage Disclosure Statement on the back of the NYS title certificate must be completed for all vehicles regardless of the vehicle's age. Then , in the title certificate transfer portion , clearly print the seller's name and address, the buyer's name and address, and the date of transfer. As seller , when you sign on the line for " Seller's Signature , " the vehicle will immediately belong to the new owner. The new owner cannot legally drive the vehicle before obtaining new license plates and a new registration, or transfer them from another registered vehicle. Tip: Before you complete the sale , take your license plates off the vehicle, and remove your registration sticker from the windshield. Unless you transfer the plates to another vehicle , turn them in at a DMV office as soon as possible. 
What is a motor vehicle "branding"? 
A motor vehicle branding is a written notice that a motor vehicle previously either: did not conform to its warranty; had been rebuilt following damage in excess of 75% of its retail value at the time of loss; originally entered New York State under a branded out - of - state title; had not been manufactured to U.S. standards; has been reconstructed; or is not equipped with a tamper - resistant odometer. A dealer must inform a customer, in writing, if a branded vehicle is being shown or sold. This may be a notice placed on the dealer's bill of sale or handed to the customer. The branding also may be a printed notice on the front of the title. Read the DMV publication Let the Buyer Be Aware, Buying a New or Used Car [9] C-18 for helpful information about brands on titles and what they mean. If you are considering a vehicle that has a title with any notation you do not understand , contact a DMV Call Center for information before you purchase the vehicle. 
What should I do if I'm the buyer? 
Carefully examine the current owner's Certificate of Title MV-999 you buy. Be sure the information is correct , and that the title certificate identifies the motor vehicle, motorboat, or manufactured home being sold. Compare the vehicle identification number VIN on the title with the actual VIN. A motorboat's VIN is located on its hull , and a manufactured home's VIN is stamped on its chassis. A motor vehicle's VIN is usually located on the driver's side dashboard, near the windshield : For a motor vehicle 10 years old and newer , be sure the odometer reading, your name and address as buyer, and the date are printed clearly in the spaces provided under " TRANSFER BY OWNER " on the reverse of the title. If the odometer reading is not available on the title , you must obtain a completed Odometer And Damage Disclosure Statement PDF [10] MV-103 from the seller. Sign as indicated on the appropriate place on the title certificate or on the MV-103 to acknowledge you have seen the reported mileage. For a motor vehicle 8 years old or newer , be sure the seller has completed the appropriate damage disclosure statement. This statement indicates whether or not the vehicle's new title certificate should be branded " Rebuilt Salvage. " The damage disclosure statement is printed on the reverse of title certificates issued beginning 1994. If an older version of the title is used , the seller must give you a completed Odometer And Disclosure Statement MV-103, available at any motor vehicle office. It is also available from a DMV Call Center or from the DMV Internet Office. If the seller indicates the vehicle has been damaged to the extent that the cost of repairs would be in excess of 75 percent of the retail value of the vehicle at the time of loss , the vehicle cannot be registered. It must undergo a salvage vehicle examination by DMV. After the vehicle passes the exam , the DMV will issue a branded title. PLEASE NOTE: If the vehicle is 8 model years old or newer , the DMV will NOT register your motor vehicle or issue you a new title certificate unless the seller has completed, and you have signed, the damage disclosure statement on the reverse of the vehicle's Certificate of Title MV-999 or attached a completed damage disclosure on an Odometer And Damage Disclosure Statement MV-103. IMPORTANT : THE DMV MUST EXAMINE EVERY VEHICLE IDENTIFIED " REBUILT SALVAGE " FOR STOLEN PARTS THE VEHICLE CAN BE REGISTERED OR TITLED. Be sure the person named on the front of the title is the person actually transferring it. Do not accept a title with anything altered, crossed - out, written - over or erased. If a lienholder is listed on the front of the title , be sure the seller gives you the original proof of lien release before you complete the purchase. Otherwise, you may become responsible for the lien , and your purchase could be repossessed for non - payment. As the new owner , you will need proof of the purchase price for sales tax purposes--have the seller fill out the appropriate NYS vehicle sales tax form, most often the " Affidavit of Sale / Statement of Transaction " DTF-802 available at any motor vehicle office, by request from a DMV Call Center or from the DMV Internet Office. Bring the completed form when you apply for registration and title. Then have the seller sign his or her name in full on the line marked " Seller's Signature. " The purchase now belongs to you. Title BureauNYS DMVPO Box 2750Albany , NY 12220 - 0750 NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLESMark J. F. Schroeder , Commissioner C-19 02/00 Return to DMV Publications [12 ] 

title : Order picture and professional plates#1
document : 
Order picture and professional plates[1] 
You can order picture or professional plates for passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles and motorcycles. Many picture or professional plates can also be personalized [2]. You can browse our collection of picture and professional plates and order online directly from the pages below. The categories are : I Love NY Adventure [3 ] Sports [4 ] Military and Veterans [5 ] Counties and Regions of NY State [6 ] Colleges , Fraternities , Sororities [7 ] Causes [8 ] Professions [9 ] Organizations [10 ] Motorcycle Plates [11 ] Learn more about picture and professional plates. [12] 
Order online 
You can order many picture plates online, see the list above for more information on how to order a plate. If you wish to purchase plates for people with disabilities that have the Universal Symbol of Access , you must contact the Custom Plates Unit. All professional and military / veteran plates, and some organization picture plates require you to provide proof or certification that you are eligible. These plates must be ordered through the organization or the Custom Plates Unit. To order picture or professional plates online : You must have a valid New York State vehicle registration in the passenger, commercial or motorcycle registration class that does not expire within 60 days. The mailing address on your vehicle registration record must be your current mailing address. Your vehicle registration record must match your current name if your name has changed. You must provide your current plate number, the 3-letter registration class code and the first three letters of your last name. See a sample registration document. [13] You must have a credit card that DMV accepts, and a valid email address for confirmation purposes. 
Order by mail 
To order picture or professional plates by mail , use the Application for Custom Plates pdf [14] CP-30. Mail the completed form and your payment to : NYS DMV Custom Plates UnitP.O. Box 2775Albany , NY 12220 
Order by phone 
You can order by phone, however it s faster and easier to do it online. Call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. 
Order at a DMV office 
Yes , but you can save yourself trip. It s faster and easier to do it online. Find a DMV office. [15] Professional plates can only be ordered from the Custom Plates Unit with proper proof or certification. 
Receiving custom plates and registration 
In approximately 10 days or less after your order is processed , you will receive new documents that show your current plate number and your new plate combination. Allow at least six weeks for the custom plates to arrive. Your new registration documents will be mailed separately from your new custom plates If you do not receive your registration documents within two weeks or your custom plates within six weeks , contact the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. Check my plate order mailing status. [16] 
Destroy your old plates 
Once you receive your new plates you will want to destroy your old plates to protect against the fraudulent use. Mark each vehicle plate with a permanent marker. Do not put both vehicle plates in the recycling / garbage on the same day. You can t order picture or professional plates before your vehicle is registered, when renewing your registration, or before transferring a registration. You must have a registration windshield sticker, receipt and regular series plates issued by DMV before ordering picture or professional plates. Call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. If your registration expires within the next 60 days , renew your registration [17] before you order picture or professional plates. Change your address online [18] before ordering picture or professional plates. You must visit a DMV office [15] to change your name on all DMV records and documents. Learn more about how to change your name [19]. We accept American Express, Discover, MasterCard and VISA. Some picture plates can t be purchased by mail. Some plates are not available by phone. Professional, emergency services and some organization plates are limited to membership and must be ordered through the organization or directly from the Custom Plates Unit, with documentation. Call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. 
Common Tasks: 

Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Plates [20 ] 
show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Get a driver license#1
document : 
Get a driver license[1] 
New York State residents age 16 or over can apply for a New York driver license. 
Step 1: Determine what license class and type you need 
Class : most people get a class D - Operator if 18 or older or a DJ - Junior Operator if under 18. See instructions to get a class A , B , C- commercial license CDL [2 ] class M - motorcycle license [3 ] class E - taxi or limousine livery license [4 ] Type : DMV offers 3 types of licenses. Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [5]. 
Step 2: Get a learner permit 
Before you can get a license , you must apply for a learner permitat DMV office and take the written test. You can prepare by reading the New York State Driver's Manual and taking practice tests. Learn how to get a learner permit [6]. 
Step 3: Practice driving and take a pre-licensing course 
Once you have a learner permit , you must have supervised driving practice and you must take a pre - licensing course or a driver education course before you take your road test. Learn how to find a pre - licensing course and prepare for your road test [7]. 
Step 4: Pass a road test 
If you pass your test , the examiner will give you an interim license that allows you to drive. Keep the interim license with your photo learner permit until your new license arrives in the mail in about 2 weeks. See how to schedule and take a road test [8]. 
Fees 
Fees depend on what you are applying for, your age, and where you live. Use the fee chart to estimate your fee [9]. 
Replace, renew, restore, or exchange 

Replace 
See how to replace a license that was lost, stolen or destroyed [10]. 
Renew 
See how to renew your license [11]. 
Restore 
Learn how to restore your driving privilege and reapply for your license after a revocation [12]. 
Exchange out-of-state license 
If you are from another state , see how to exchange your out - of - state driver license [13]. If you are coming here from another country overseas , see information about visiting or moving to New York [14]. 
If you are you under 18 

Graduated license law 
If you are under age 18 or are the parent of a driver under age 18 , it is very important that you understand the Graduated Driver License GDL Law and the restrictions on drivers under age 18 [15]. 
Senior license before 18 
If you are 17 , you are eligible for a senior driver license Class D or M if you have a junior driver license or limited junior driver license and have completed a state - approved high school or college driver education course. To change your junior license to a senior license , bring your junior license and the Student Certificate of Completion MV-285 that you received from your instructor to any DMV office [16]. You must return your certificate and junior license to receive the senior license. If you do not change your junior license to a senior license , you are subject to the restrictions for junior drivers until you are age 18, even if you carry the completion certificate with you. You can also give your certificate with your junior permit to the license examiner at your road test. 
When you turn 18 
If you are not eligible for a senior license you turn 18 , you will automatically receive a senior license in the mail when you turn 18. 
Additional information 

Probationary period for new drivers 
Once you pass your road test or restore a revoked driver license , you will have 6 month probationary period. During this time , your license will be suspended for 60 days if you are convicted of any the following speeding participating in a speed contest reckless driving following too closely use of a mobile telephone use of a portable electronic device for example a smart phone, tablet, GPS or MP3 player any 2 other moving violations After the suspension ends , you will have a second 6 month probation period. If you are convicted of one of the violations above or 2 other moving violations during the second probation period , your license will be revoked for at least 6 months. When the revocation ends , you must serve another a 6 month probationary period. 
Your first license is valid for 5 years 
For a Class D, Class DJ, and Class E driver license , the expiration date of your learner permit becomes the expiration date of your driver license. Together the learner permit and the driver license are valid for a maximum of 5 years. When you apply for a learner permit and a driver license , you pay the fee for the length of time that the documents are valid. For example , a learner permit that was issued to you in 2014 will be valid until your birthday in 2019. You pay the fee for a document that is valid for 5 years. If you pass your road test in 2017 , your driver license will expire in 2019. Your driver license keeps the expiration date of your learner permit. When you a change from a Class DJ junior license to a Class D senior license , the date does not change. 
Drivers from other countries 
You can drive in New York State with a valid driver license from another country. You don t need to apply for a New York State driver license unless you become a New York State resident. If you choose to get a New York driver license following the steps explained on this page , when you pass your road test , you must give your foreign driver license to the DMV road test examiner. The local DMV office will destroy your foreign driver license after 60 days. If you plan to return to your home country and will need your foreign driver license , ask the road test examiner how to make sure that your foreign driver license is not destroyed. 
Still haven't found what you're looking for? 
See a list of all driver license topics [17]. Definition of Resident per Section 250 5 of the NY State Vehicle and Traffic Law : " As used in this section, the term' resident' shall mean domiciliary, that is, one who lives in this state with the intention of making it a fixed and permanent abode. It shall be presumptive evidence that a person who maintains a place of abode in this state for a period of at least ninety days is a resident of this state. " To live in a house, a home, an apartment, a room or other similar place in NY State for 90 days is considered " presumptive evidence " that you are a resident of New York State. A police officer can use this as evidence to issue a traffic ticket if you drive in New York State without a New York State driver license or vehicle registration. A judge considers the law and the evidence of your intent and decides if you are a resident of New York State. If you pay taxes or your children attend school in another state , a judge considers these facts to decide if your intent is to make NY State a " fixed and permanent " residence. According to this law , students from other states or from other nations who attend school in NY State are usually not considered residents of NY State. DMV does not decide if you are a resident of New York State, if you must get a New York State driver license, or if you must register your vehicle in New York State. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Driver License [18 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Tickets received in another state#3
document : 
What happens if I get a traffic ticket in another state? 

Moving violations 
Your NY State Driver License will be suspended if you fail to answer a ticket for a moving violation in any state except Alaska, California, Michigan, Montana, Oregon or Wisconsin. Your license will remain suspended until you answer the ticket. Drivers from any state, except those from the six states listed above, will have their driver licenses suspended in their own state for failure to answer a moving violation in New York State. The New York State DMV does not record out - of - state convictions of moving traffic violations of New York State non - commercial licensed drivers, except for traffic offenses committed in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec in Canada. 
Alcohol and drug violations 

If you are 21 or older 
If you are 21 years of age or older when you commit an alcohol or drug related driving violation in any other state or the provinces of Ontario and Quebec in Canada and you are convicted of the violation , your New York State driver license will be revoked for at least 90 days. Out - of - state drivers ticketed in New York State should contact the Motor Vehicle Department of their own state or province about the effect of a conviction in New York State. 
If you are under 21 
If you are under the age of 21 when you commit an alcohol or drug related driving violation that occurs out - of - state and you are convicted of the violation , your New York State driver license will be revoked for at least one year. If you have any prior alcohol or drug related driving conviction , your license will be revoked for at least one year or until the age of 21, whichever is longer. 
Convictions for criminal negligence, homicide or assault 
The New York State DMV records the out - of - state convictions of any New York driver for criminal negligence, homicide, or assault, which arise out of the operation of a motor vehicle and which results in death. As a result of any of these convictions , your NY State Driver License will be revoked. 

title : Transfer IRP registration#1
document : 
Transfer IRP registration[1] 
To transfer an IRP registration and apportioned plates , request that the IRB transfer the registration when you buy or register the new vehicle. 
Transfer IRP registration online 
You can apply to transfer an IRP registration online through the New York State One Stop Credentialing and Registration system OSCAR. For more information go to https://www.oscar.ny.gov/OSCR/OSCRCarrierHome [2]. 
Transfer an IRP registration by mail 
To apply for transfer of an IRP registration mail the following completed and signed form Schedule A & C pdf [3] IRP-6 1 proof of: ownership and proof of insurance form FS-20 for the new vehicle being added to your account if applicable clearance of the Heavy Vehicle Use Tax IRS form 2290 proof of identity 2 the original cab card for the vehicle being removed from the fleet the appropriate fee If you are using the United States Postal Service use this address International Registration BureauPO Box 2850 ESPAlbany , NY 12220 - 0850 International Registration BureauNYS DMVRoom 1366 Empire State PlazaAlbany , NY 12228 
Transfer an IRP registration at the Customer Service Counter in Albany 
You may bring the items described above to Customer Service CounterRoom 136Swan Street BuildingEmpire State PlazaAlbany , NY 12228 The office is open from 8:00am to 3:45pm, Monday through Friday, except state holidays 
Transfer an IRP registration by fax 
Fax the items described above to the IRB at518 - 486 - 6579 
How much will the transfer cost? 
Fees are calculated by member jurisdictions using different methods. The NY State IRB cannot calculate the amount of your bill until the transfer has been processed 
When will the new registration expire? 
The new registration expires on the same date as the original registration. 
What if the new vehicle weighs more than the previous vehicle? 
If the new vehicle weighs more than the previous vehicle , there are pro - rated registration fees for the difference in weight, administrative fees for the vehicle plate transfer and fees for any fee increases that may have occurred since the original registration was issued. 
What should I do with the original cab card? 
The original cab card for the vehicle being removed from your fleet must be sent to the IRB. 
What if I do not transfer the registration immediately? 
If you do not transfer the registration immediately , surrender the apportioned plates and cab card to the IRB. Your vehicle registration will be suspended if there is a lapse of liability insurance and the apportioned plates were not surrendered. The driver license of the registrant can also be suspended . See Section 9.0 of the NY State IRP Manual pdf [4] IRP-8 for complete instructions on registration transfers. In Part 1 , Type of Application Requested , check TRANSFER PLATES, and complete the Carrier, Fleet, Weight and Vehicle Information sections on the form If you apply by mail , send photocopies of your proofs of identity. If another person brings your application to the Customer Service Counter , see the requirements for a second - party registration application. 
Do it by phone: 
You can't transfer an IRP registration by phone. You may call the IRB with questions at 1 - 518 - 473 - 5834. 
Do it by mail: 
You can transfer your IRP registration by mail. Follow the instructions on this page and Schedule A&C [3] IRP-6. 
Do it at the DMV: 
You can transfer an IRP registration at the Customer Service CounterRoom 136Swan Street BuildingEmpire State PlazaAlbany , NY 12228 The Customer Service Counter is open 8:00am to 3:45pm, Monday through Friday, except state holidays You can't transfer an IRP registration at a DMV local office. 
Do it by fax: 
You can fax the items described on this page to the IRB at 518 - 486 - 6579. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Motor Carriers [5 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 


title : Registrations#3
document : Your' registration' is the sticker placed on your windshield and the paper registration certificate that you must keep in your vehicle. You or your business must register and title at a DMV office any vehicle you own or lease. Registrations do not need to be in the owner's name, or for only one person. Auto dealers can register and title vehicles, and issue plates and charge a fee for this. See information about vehicle plates [1] or vehicle titles [2]. 
Vehicles already registered in New York 

Renew 
You can renew your registration online and print a 10 day document to use until your new registration arrives in the mail. Please note: If your vehicle has been altered or stretched to increase the number of passengers or if there are other special circumstances , you cannot renew your registration online. See additional information and other ways to renew a registration [3]. Renew registration online [4 ] 
Other transactions 
Change address [5 ] Change name or other information [6 ] Check registration status [7 ] Replace registration [8] and get a temporary document Surrender return plates and cancel registration [9 ] Tell DMV your new registration has not come in the mail [10 ] Transfer a registration to another vehicle you own [11 ] 
Suspensions 
See information on registration suspensions due to Parking tickets [12] 1 Toll violations [13 ] Insurance lapses [14 ] 
Register a vehicle in New York 
You must register any vehicle owned by you or your business at a DMV office. 2 See general information about registering a vehicle [15] and specific requirements for different vehicle types [16]. 
What you need to register 
Complete DMV s Document Guide to make sure you have the correct proofs of identification and other documents before you come to the DMV. Find your proofs [17 ] 
Special situations 
Agricultural and farm vehicles [18 ] Deceased owner [19 ] Homemade vehicles and trailers [20 ] Imported vehicles [21 ] More than one owner or registrant [22 ] No title for a newly purchased vehicle [23 ] Pick - up trucks as' passenger' class [24 ] Register a vehicle for someone else [25 ] Register a vehicle while you are out - of - state [26 ] Register an out - of - state vehicle [27 ] 
More information 
Abandoned and unclaimed vehicles [28 ] Apply for Clean Pass [29 ] that cannot be registered in New York [30 ] Motorized devices Power of attorney [31 ] Transfer vehicle ownership to another person [32 ] Vehicle modifications and registration class [33 ] Salvage vehicles [34 ] 
Resources 
Businesses regulated by DMV [35] Inspection Stations, Dealers and Transporters, Repair Shops, etc. Determine if a car was flooded or stolen [36 ] If a family member has died [37 ] Military and Veteran's Resources [38 ] Moving to New York or out of New York [39 ] Tips for buying a vehicle [40 ] DMV does not handle parking violations or regulate parking. If you receive a parking ticket you must respond to the locality where they were issued. Do not contact DMV. If you fail to answer parking tickets , the locality can notify the DMV which can prevent the renewal of your vehicle registration, or suspend your vehicle registration. See a list of local Traffic Courts in New York State [41 ] This includes all of these types of vehicles if you plan to drive them on a public road Cars SUVS Vans Pick - up trucks Motorcycles Trailers Custom and homemade trailers Agricultural and farm vehicles Boats ATVs Mopeds Snowmobiles There are some motorized devices that cannot be registered in New York [30]. 

title : How to check a title or lien status#1
document : 
How to check a title or lien status[1] 

Do it online 
You can check the status of vehicle titles and liens online. Sorry , the service is not available for boat titles. The status check service displays the title was issued by DMV 1 the date the number of liens if any the name and address of the lienholder The service does not display any personal information about the vehicle owner or registrant. You must provide the Vehicle Identification Number VIN vehicle model year vehicle make (i.e. Ford, Jeep ) This information can be found on your vehicle's registration documents see a sample [2]. Check a title or lien status online [3 ] Please note , it can take up to 90 days to receive the title certificate from the DMV in the mail. If it has been over 90 days , you still have not received your title , Email the DMV to check your title status [4 ] 
Lien not listed 
To have a lien recorded on a Certificate of Title , you must submit a request either through a dealer or directly to NY State DMV pay the required lien filing fee If you did that, but did not see your lien listed when you checked the status of the title certificate on this website , or if you learned from another source that the lien is either not recorded or not pending , please notify DMV immediately by completing and emailing a Customer Lien Inquiry pdf [5] MV-910 to the email address shown on the form. 
Customer Lien Inquiry (MV-910) 
Provide your Contact Information if you are a lending institution, please include your lien filing code. Provide complete and accurate information for the vehicle or boat in question. If the version of Adobe does not allow you to save the information you typed , you can print the form and fax it to 518 486 - 6581. Click on the email address shown on the form to open an email, or open an email and paste the address into the To line. Attach the completed form to the email and send it. use this form or the email to request any other type of information or service from DMV we will disregard anything not related to a possible missing lien However , if you have questions or issues on any other matter , see how to contact us [7]. What to expect DMV staff will respond to your request as soon as possible. We must first identify the vehicle or boat and verify its title status. Then we must retrieve and review the application forms to determine the appropriate response. Please note that these activities take time. If your lien has not been recorded, and the correct form and fee have been filed , we will record your lien and send you a Notice of Recorded Lien MV-901. If we do not have the correct form and fee to record your lien , we will contact you to let you know what is needed. The issue date is the date the DMV prints the title certificate. The DMV mails the certificate after it's printed. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Registration [8 ] 
show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Replace a non-driver ID card#1
document : 
Replace a non-driver ID card[1] 
You can replace your non - driver ID if it was lost or destroyed, or after you update your address. You cannot replace your ID if it expired you must renew or apply for a new one. 
If you plan on traveling 
We recommend you come to the DMV now to get an Enhanced or REAL ID, and avoid a second office visit later. 1 Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [2]. 
Replace at an office and get an Enhanced or REAL ID 
You don't have to get an Enhanced or REAL ID. 2 However , if you have a Standard , you will not be allowed to board a domestic flight starting in October 2020 unless you have a Passport. Complete this guide to make sure you have the proofs of identification you need before you come to DMV. Find your proofs [3 ] 
Online 
WARNING: If you replace your Standard online , your new document will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can replace online. Your document type will stay the same. Replace non - driver ID online [4 ] 
By mail 
WARNING: If you replace your Standard online , your new document will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can replace by mail. Your document type will stay the same. Mail a completed Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 photocopies of acceptable proof of identity [6 ] unless you are submitting proof of SSI as described below payment by check or money order made out to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles " NYS Department of Motor Vehicles207 Genesee Street, Suite 6Utica, NY 13501 - 2874 
*Reduced fee or 'No Fee' 
To get a reduced fee or' No Fee' replacement , you must you must apply by mail or at a DMV office sorry, you can't apply online, provide proof of your eligibility for Supplemental Security Income. This proof can be that you are eligible for SSI benefits Notice of Award notifying you Cost of Living Adjustment COLA letter Notice of change in payment SSA - L8151 Third Party Query TPQY letter Report of Confidential Social Security Information SSA-2258 Benefit Verification letter you must call the SSA in advance to obtain this letter : 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 At a DMV office : Bring proof of Supplemental Security Income SSI. By mail : Send us aof your proof of Supplemental Security Income SSI. 
Additional information 

If you are turning 21 soon 
Order within 40 days of your birthday to get an ID without UNDER 21. 
You will get your new ID in 2 weeks 
Allow 2 weeks to receive it in the mail. You can check the mailing status [7] of your photo document online. If your document is not delivered two weeks after the date the document was processed , you can contact us [8]. 
We mail your ID to the address we have on record 
We mail your new non - driver ID card to the address currently on our records or an alternate address you provide. See how to change or verify your address [9]. 
Alternate mailing address 
When you apply by mail or at an office , you can ask that your replacement document be sent to an address that is different from the address on your document. 4 You can't have it sent to a different address when you order online. 
Overseas (out of the country, abroad) 
When overseas you must replace your non - drivers ID card through the mail. Please submit a completed Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 photocopies of acceptable proof of identity [6 ] the appropriate fee We also recommend that you send us a pre - addressed priority mail return envelope with your application. This will help ensure that we send your new ID to the correct address. 
Name or other changes 
If you need to make changes other than to your address , you will need go to a DMV office. See how to change your name or other information [10]. Starting in October 2020 , you will need an Enhanced or REAL ID to board a domestic flight unless you have a passport. If your non - driver ID was issued before October 30 , 2017 and is not Enhanced , you have a Standard document. Newly issued Standard documents show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. If you want to replace in an office and keep your Standard document type , follow these steps : Step 1: Complete an Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 Step 2 : Come to an office. Bring your current Standard non - driver ID your application payment Newly issued Standard documents show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. If you request a replacement driver license 41 days or more before your 21st birthday , it will say UNDER 21. If you want your new non - driver ID card sent to an alternate address , include an additional note and clearly print the alternate address. Don t write the alternate address on form MV-44. The mailing address you write on form MV-44 must be the address that is listed on your photo document and your DMV record. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
ID Card [11 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Get a motorcycle license#1
document : 
Get a motorcycle license [1] 
A New York State resident must have a Class M or Class MJ driver license or learner permit to drive a motorcycle. To get a motorcycle license , you must first get a motorcycle learner permit. IMPORTANT : DMV offers 3 types of documents. Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [2]. 
How to get a motorcycle license 

Step 1: Apply for a motorcycle permit at a DMV office 
Here is what do study the NY State Motorcycle Operator's Manual [3] MV-21MC to prepare for the written test you have the documents and proofs of identification you need complete the DMV Document Guide to make sure Find your proofs [4 ] if you already have a New York State learner permit or driver license , bring the document bring payment for the $10.00 application fee and the motorcycle license fee 1 
Step 2: Prepare for the motorcycle road test 
Before you schedule your road test , we recommend that you have at least 30 hours of practice on a motorcycle, with or without formal instruction. We also recommend that you have at least 10 hours of practice in medium to high volume traffic consider taking the New York State Motorcycle Safety Program Basic Rider Course [5] or instruction from a commercial driving school When you practice driving with a motorcycle learner permit you must be supervised by a driver age 21 or older who has a valid motorcycle license from any state the motorcycle driver who supervises you must be within 1/4 mile of you at all times you must obey the general restrictions [6] for permit holders [6 ] if you have a Class MJ permit , you must obey the restrictions and requirements for drivers under age 18 [7 ] 
Step 3: Schedule and take a motorcycle road test 
See Schedule and take a road test [8]. if you do not already have another class of New York State driver license , you must complete a pre - licensing course or a Driver Education course before you can schedule a road test 2 if you already have another class of New York State license , you do not need a pre - licensing course or Student Certificate of Completion 
Step 4: Get your motorcycle license 
If you pass the road test , the examiner will issue a temporary motorcycle license to you. if you do not have another class of New York State driver license , you will receive your motorcycle license with your photo by mail about 2 weeks after your road test you do not have to visit a DMV office if you already have another class of New York State driver license , wait at least 7 days after your road test to apply for your motorcycle license at a DMV office, and be sure to complete an Application for Permit, Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [9] MV-44 mark the " Change " box at the top, and write in Add Class M or MJ " in the " Other Change " box bring your temporary motorcycle license, your motorcycle permit and your current photo license pay the $12.50 fee to amend your driver license Both driver license classes will be listed on your new document for example, Class DM. Your new license expires on the same date as your previous one. The DMV office will issue a temporary license without a photo to you. Allow two weeks to receive your new license by mail. 
Additional information 

Can I get the motorcycle road test waived? 
We can waive the test if you are qualified and you complete an approved course. To get information about approved courses in your area , visit the New York State Motorcycle Safety Program website [5] or call toll - free at 1 - 800 - 446 - 9227. To qualify for the waiver you must be 16 years of age or older have a valid NY State license Class A, B, C, D, DJ or E have a valid class M or MJ motorcycle learner permit present either a Basic Rider Course BRC or a Basic Rider Course 2 License / Waiver BRC2-LW Course completion card issued by the NY State Motorcycle Safety Foundation within two years of completing the course You cannot get a waiver for a motorcycle road test if you completed a rider course given in another state. There are waivers available in some cases for members of the U.S. Armed Forces. 
Can I drive in New York with an out-of-state motorcycle license? 
If you have a valid motorcycle license issued by another state where you are a resident , you can drive motorcycles in New York State. 
Can I exchange an out-of-state motorcycle license for a New York motorcycle license? 
If you become a resident of New York State , you should exchange your out - of - state motorcycle license for a New York State motorcycle license. See Exchange an out - of - state driver license [10]. 
Where can I learn more about motorcycle safety? 
Motorcycle safety information is available from the New York State Governor s Traffic Safety Committee [11]. The fees you pay when you get your first motorcycle license depend on whether or not you currently have another class of NYS driver license and your exact age when you apply. The fees for a Class M or MJ driver license, or to add class M or MJ to your current driver license, can range from $21 to $120 , but we cannot calculate your exact fee until you apply. A Pre - licensing Course Certificate MV-278 is valid for one year. A Student Certificate of Completion MV-285 is valid for two years. See Prepare for your road test [12] for more information about these certificates. A member of the US Armed Forces who completes the MSF Basic Rider Course BRC through the military while on active duty outside of New York State can qualify to have their military BRC converted into a NY BRC and receive the road test waiver. See the instructions on the website of the New York State Motorcycle Safety Program [13] or call 1 - 518 - 384 - 0045. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Driver License [14 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Vehicle modifications and registration class#3
document : Modifications to a car, pick - up truck, van, motorcycle, or moped can affect its registration class. Important : The DMV cannot examine your vehicle to determine the correct registration class. You must determine the correct registration class for your vehicle. 
Modifications to a motorcycle or moped, including Limited Use Motorcycles- 
If you remove a speed governor that was originally installed to limit the top speed of a moped or add a speed governor that limits the top speed of a moped or motorcycle , you must notify DMV and register the moped or motorcycle in the appropriate class [1]. 
Modifications to cars, pick-up trucks, and vans 
Part 106 of DMV Regulations describes the vehicles that are registered in the' Commercial' class and in the passenger class. Part 106 also describes how some modifications that you make to your vehicle can affect the correct registration class of your vehicle. A description of the modifications appears below. Each description includes a reference to the DMV Regulations [2]. For all vehicle modifications , you must obtain a vehicle weight slip. You can get vehicle weight slips at most vehicle and/or metal scrapyards and from some auto - parts stores and mechanics, especially those specializing in vehicle modifications and camper body / equipment sales and installation. 
Modifications that change a registration from 'Passenger' class to 'Commercial' class 

Cars (Part 106.2 (e)) 
You can register a car in the' Commercial' class if all the seats behind the driver are removed. Instead of the seats , you must install a permanent box or permanent rack to carry cargo. 
Station Wagons and Vans (Part 106.2 (f)) 
You can register a station wagon in the' Commercial' class if all the seats and all the seat fittings behind the driver are removed completely. 
Modifications that change a registration from 'Commercial' class to 'Passenger' class 

Pick-up Trucks (Part 106.6 (b) and (c)) 
You can register a pick - up in the' Passenger' class if it meets certain conditions, depending on its unladen weight. If your modified or unmodified pick - up truck has an unladen weight less than 6,001 lbs ., you can register it in the' Passenger' class if it meets the following conditions : the pick - up truck does not have any business advertisements the pick - up truck is used exclusively for non - commercial purposes If your modified pick - up truck with an unladen weight greater than 6,000 lbs ., you can register it in the' Passenger' class if it meets the following conditions : the pick - up truck does not have any business advertisements and is used exclusively for non - commercial purposes a camper top having one or more side windows completely encloses the truck bed the pick - up truck has seats, seat fittings, or camping equipment installed in the truck bed ' camping equipment indicates that you have a permanent bed, a permanent stove, or a permanent refrigerator in the vehicle. if this equipment is removed and you use the van , you must register the van as a commercial vehicle 
Vans (Part 106.3 (d)) 
You can register it in the' Passenger' class if the van has at least one side window behind the driver , and at least one seat or set of seat fittings that is installed behind the driver , or camping equipment that is installed behind the driver. ' camping equipment' indicates that you have a permanent bed, a permanent stove, or a permanent refrigerator in the vehicle if you install seats behind the driver , you must also install seatbelts that meet NY State Occupant Restraint Law requirements NOTE : These modifications must be permanent. If you use a van or pick - up truck without the required modifications , then you must register it in the' Commercial' registration class. 

title : Get a  hazardous materials (HazMat) endorsement#3
document : 
How do I get a hazardous materials (HazMat) endorsement? 
You must first have a CDL to apply for the HazMat endorsement. A driver with a NY State CDL must have an " H " or an " X " HazMat endorsement to operate commercial motor vehicles that carry hazardous materials. Read the CDL Manual [1] CDL-10, Hazardous Materials Manual pdf [2] CDL-11, and Driver License Class Descriptions pdf [3] MV-500C for more information. 
What requirements do I have to meet to apply for a HazMat endorsement? 
You must be a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident of the U.S. and present proof of citizenship or resident status at the time you apply for the hazardous materials endorsement. See Important Information about the Hazardous Materials Endorsement pdf [4] HAZ-11 for a list of acceptable proof of citizenship or resident status. You must meet the federal medical requirements in 49 CFR Part 391 and have a valid USDOT Medical Examiner's Certificate. See Medical Certification Requirements [5] for more information. You must be fingerprinted for background checks. 
Is there anything that may disqualify me from getting a HazMat endorsement? 
Yes , under federal law , the Federal Transportation Security Administration TSA may disqualify you from being authorized to transport hazardous materials if you have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of any of the crimes listed on Important Information about the Hazardous Materials Endorsement pdf [4] HAZ-11 during the seven years before the date you apply for the endorsement you have been released from incarceration in any jurisdiction for committing any disqualifying crime during the five years before the date you applied for the endorsement. 
How do I apply for the HazMat endorsement? 
Complete the Application for a Hazardous Materials Endorsement pdf [6] and make a copy of one or more of the legal status documents that are listed on the form. Mail the completed form and a copy of your legal status document to : HazMat UnitNYS DMV6 Empire State PlazaAlbany, NY 12228 You may contact the HazMat unit if you have questions by phone at 1 - 518 - 408 - 2997 or email at [email protected] [7 ] 
Do I need to take a written test? 
Yes , you must pass a HazMat endorsement written test. You must visit a DMV office to pay the $5.00 written test fee and take the test. The test result is valid until your CDL expires. You can study the hazardous materials section of the NYS Commercial Driver License Manual [1] CDL-10, or study the Hazardous Materials Manual pdf [2] CDL-11. 
How do I provide my fingerprints for background checks? 
The required fingerprinting service is being provided by Identogo. All HazMat endorsement applicants must be fingerprinted at one of the Identogo ID centers located throughout New York State. 3 4 Fingerprinting is done by appointment only. You must contact Identogo to select a fingerprinting location and schedule an appointment. Visit https://uenroll.identogo.com [8] or by calling 1 - 877 - 472 - 6915. Attain Fingerprinting Services Information [9] HAZ-600 to make your appointment. Bring your NY State CDL and one of the second proofs of ID that are listed on form HAZ-600 to the appointment site. 
How long will the background checks take and how will I be notified of the results? 
It normally takes at least 30 days from the date you submit your fingerprints to complete the background check. However , the time period can be longer than 30 days. The Federal Transportation Security Administration TSA will notify you by mail of the results of the background check based on federal standards only. The TSA website [10] has information about the federal background checks for the HazMat endorsements. Please do not request the results of background checks from the DMV, Identogo, or the TSA. Wait to receive the notifications in the mail. 
Can I get a temporary HazMat endorsement before the background checks are complete? 
No. We cannot issue the HazMat endorsement until the background checks are completed and approved. The DMV will provide a CDL with the HazMat endorsement that is valid for 90 days only if you applied to renew a current NY State CDL with a HazMat endorsement the background checks are not completed and approved before the endorsement expires. 
What if I do not pass the written test or the background checks? 
If you do not pass the written test or the background checks , the DMV will issue a CDL that does not have a HazMat endorsement. 
How will I know whether or not my application has been approved? 
We will mail you notification of approval along with instructions to go into a DMV office to obtain a CDL with the HazMat endorsement. Your new CDL will display the expiration date of your CDL and the expiration date of your HazMat endorsement. The endorsement is valid for five years. Federal and State laws require fingerprint - based background checks for anyone who wants a hazardous materials endorsement, to determine whether that person has a criminal history and/or poses a security threat that warrants denying him or her the authorization to transport hazardous materials. No hazardous materials endorsement may be issued, transferred or renewed unless the background checks result in a determination by the Federal Transportation Security Administration TSA and New York State that the person applying for the endorsement is authorized to transport hazardous materials. To initiate background checks , the rules require that the applicant be fingerprinted, and that his or her United States citizenship or permanent legal presence in the United States be verified. You must answer 80% or more of the questions correctly to pass the test. You can take the test as many times as necessary until you pass the test , but you must pay a $5 fee for each test you take. You must provide fingerprints even if you provided fingerprints for another application, for example for a pistol permit or employment as a security guard. You must provide fingerprints for an H endorsement or an X endorsement on your CDL. The background checks include a check of criminal history data from the NY State Division of Criminal Justice Services and the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI. There is also a background check by the federal Transportation Safety Administration TSA. 

title : Get a license to drive a taxi or livery vehicle#3
document : To drive taxis and other livery vehicles in New York State , you must be 18 years of age or older and you must have a driver license that is one of these classes Class A commercial driver license CDL Class B CDL Class C CDL Class E driver license 
If you plan on traveling 
We recommend you come to the DMV now to get an Enhanced or REAL ID, and avoid a second office visit later. 1 Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [1]. 
Change from a Class D to a Class E license 

Step 1: Complete the 
Application for Standard Permit, Driver License for Non - Driver ID Card PDF [2] MV-44 
Step 2: Determine what identification you need to bring to the DMV 
if you want a REAL ID or Enhanced, complete this document guide to know what proofs of identity to bring to an office Find your proofs [3 ] On the first page , select : Change my existing NY State license / ID to a REAL ID or Enhanced if you want a Standard that will display " NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES " , bring your current NY State license as proof of identity 
Step 3: Go to the DMV 
surrender your Class D license. apply and pay for your Class E license the fee depends on the expiration date of your current driver license - we cannot calculate your fee until you apply take the vision test or prove that you meet our vision requirements [4 ] 
Step 4: Get your Class E license in the mail 
Allow 2 weeks for your new license to arrive. 
If you do not have New York State driver license 
If you do not have a driver license , learn how to apply for your first driver license [5]. Apply for a Class E driver license instead of a Class D driver license. The Class D license and the Class E license both require the same vision, written and road tests. The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission T&LC regulates taxi drivers and livery drivers in New York City. If you plan to drive a taxi or livery vehicle in New York City , contact the Taxi and Limousine Commission [6]. Starting in October 2020 , you will need an Enhanced or REAL ID to board a domestic flight unless you have a passport. If your license or permit was issued before October 30 , 2017 and is not Enhanced , you have a Standard document. Newly issued Standard license and permits state : ' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES ' 

title : Estimate registration fees and taxes#1
document : 
Estimate registration fees and taxes[1] 
If this is the original registration first time you register your vehicle , you must pay the registration fee vehicle plate fee county use tax sales tax see sales tax information [2 ] title certificate fee of $50.00 MCTD 1 fee for the following 12 counties only: Bronx, Kings Brooklyn, New York Manhattan, Queens, Richmond Staten Island, Dutchess, Nassau, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Suffolk, and Westchester If you transfer the registration and plates from another vehicle , you don t need to pay the plate fees or MCTD fee , and you may be able to transfer the registration fees to your new vehicle. 
Estimate fees and taxes online 
The online estimates DOES NOT include the sales tax. You can also use these charts to estimate your registration fees, use taxes, and supplemental fees for passenger vehicles [3 ] commercial vehicles [4 ] Sorry , you cannot use the online service to estimate fees and taxes for trailers or boats see instructions below. Estimate registration fees and taxes online [5 ] 
Estimate trailer and boat registration fees 
Trailer and boat registration fees are calculated differently. You can t use the online service to estimate them. See register a trailer [6], or register a boat [7] for how to estimate these registration fees. Metropolitan Commuter Transportation District You don t need to pay sales tax when you register if you show DMV acceptable proof that you paid the sales tax when you bought the vehicle, or if the registration is tax exempt. See sales tax information [2]. 
Common Tasks: 

Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Registration [8 ] 
show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 


title : Moving to NY#3
document : 
Exchange out-of-state driver license 
If you move to New York State and become a resident 1 , you must get a New York State driver license within 30 days. Learn how to exchange your out - of - state driver license [1]. 
I am studying in New York State. Do I need a New York State driver license? 
Students from other states, countries or nations who attend school in New York State are normally not considered residents of New York State, so they don t need to exchange their current driver license. Normally, you can t have a NY State driver license and a driver license from another state at the same time , but there are exceptions. However , it is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license CDL. 
Register a vehicle from another state in New York 
The registration requirements are generally the same as to register and title vehicle [2] in New York. However there are a few exceptions for out - of - state vehicles [3], and imported vehicles [4]. 
What does 'TEMPORARY VISITOR' mean? 
A Temporary Visitor is defined as anyone who is not immigrating to or not residing living in the United States. These visitors have US Department of Homeland Security DHS documentation that supports their legal status in this country. If you have DHS documents that identify you as a Temporary Visitor , your New York State driver license , permit or non - driver ID card will have ' TEMPORARY VISITOR' on it , and the expiration date from your DHS document Please note that your DMV document does not expire on the Temporary Visitor expiration date, nor will your privilege to drive in New York. 
You do not need to be a US Citizen to get a New York driver license, permit or non-driver ID card 
However , you must have US Department of Homeland Security DHS documentation that supports your legal status in this country. The expiration date from your DHS document is added to your New York State permit, driver license or non - driver ID card. Learn more about how to get a driver license [5 ] learner permit [6 ] non - driver ID card [7 ] If your temporary visitor status gets extended , you must bring to a DMV office a completed Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card pdf [8] MV-44 your updated paperwork from the DHS your documents must be valid, current and verifiable 6 points of identification [9 ] 
If I have a driver license from another country and I have a NY State learner permit, can I drive without a supervising driver? 
Yes. Your valid foreign driver license allows you to drive without a supervising driver. You can drive on any street, road, highway, bridge, or tunnel, except in a DMV road test area. If your driver license is printed in any language except English , you must bring an International Driving Permit or a certified translation of your driver license to the road test. The translation must be certified by a consulate, the US Department of State, or another official agency. The translation must include your name your date of birth the expiration date of your foreign driver license a list of the types of vehicles that your foreign driver license allows you to drive If you have a NY State learner permit, and you do not have a valid foreign driver license , NY State law requires a supervising driver to ride with you. The supervising driver must be age 21 or over and must have a valid driver license to operate the vehicle that you drive. Definition of Resident per Section 250 5 of the NY State Vehicle and Traffic Law : " As used in this section, the term' resident' shall mean domiciliary, that is, one who lives in this state with the intention of making it a fixed and permanent abode. It shall be presumptive evidence that a person who maintains a place of abode in this state for a period of at least ninety days is a resident of this state. " To live in a house, a home, an apartment, a room or other similar place in NY State for 90 days is considered " presumptive evidence " that you are a resident of New York State. A police officer can use this as evidence to issue a traffic ticket if you drive in New York State without a NY State driver license or vehicle registration. A judge considers the law and the evidence of your intent and decides if you are a resident of New York State. If you pay taxes or your children attend school in another state , a judge considers these facts to decide if your intent is to make NY State a " fixed and permanent " residence. According to this law , students from other states or from other nations who attend school in New York State are usually not considered residents of NY State. DMV does not decide if you are a resident of New York State, if you must get a NY State driver license, or if you must register your vehicle in New York State. 

title : Automatic license and registration extension for military personnel#3
document : Pursuant to Executive Order No. 2 by Governor Andrew M. Cuomo , all licenses and registrations for New York State military personnel returning from active military duty relating to the war on terrorism and military action in Iraq will automatically be extended. The following information will help minimize any potential inconvenience upon their return. 
What happens if my NY State driver license expires while I am on active duty? 
NY State law automatically extends license privileges throughout active military service for up to 6 months after discharge or separation. Discharged or separated military personnel may renew an expired NY State license up to two years after the extended expiration. No more than 30 months may have passed since discharge 6-month extension plus 24 -month grace period. Active military personnel must show proof of date of entry into military service. If the NY State license was valid at any time during your military service , your license can be renewed. A discharged serviceman must show a Certificate of Discharge, DD-214. You must have been discharged within the past 30 months. If the NY State license was valid at any time during your military service , your license can be renewed. 
Am I required to notify DMV of my entry into the military? 
While not required , it is suggested that military personnel file a Notification of Military Service pdf [1] MV -75 to ensure that the license record is not purged once the expiration date has passed. 
What happens if my NY State registration expires while I am on active duty? 
Registrations are extended for up to 60 days from return to New York State. This extension applies only to vehicles registered to military personnel. You must show proof of military service or separation. Liability insurance coverage must be maintained at all times, including the period of extension. 
What happens if I had a lapse of insurance coverage during active duty? 
You are required to maintain continuous coverage or surrender your plates before deployed. If you were unable to do so , DMV has a procedure in place to exempt you from administrative actions upon your return. You must provide a notarized statement that the vehicle was not used during the time in question, a copy of your military ID, proof of current insurance or surrender of plates, and signed and dated copies of deployment and return papers, or DD-214 if separated from service. You can present these documents at any DMV office, or mail them to : Insurance Services BureauNYS DMV6 Empire State Plaza, Room 332BAlbany, NY 12228 If you have any additional questions , please contact the DMV Call Center [2]. 

title : Renew non-driver ID card#1
document : 
Renew non-driver ID card[1] 
You can renew 1 year before and up to 2 years after your non - driver ID expires. If it is expired for 2 years or more, you can t renew - there are no exceptions. If you are 62 or older or you receive Supplemental Security Income SSI , you are eligible for a reduced fee or' No Fee' ID. See the section Reduced fee or' No Fee' non driver IDs on this page for more information. 
If you plan on traveling 
We recommend you renew in a DMV now to get an Enhanced or REAL ID, and avoid a second office visit later. 2 Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [2]. 
Renew at an office and get an Enhanced or REAL ID 
You don't have to get an Enhanced or REAL ID. 3 However , if you have a Standard , you will not be allowed to board a domestic flight starting in October 2020 unless you have a Passport. Complete this guide to make sure you have the proofs of identification you need before you come to DMV. Find your proofs [3 ] 
Renew online 
WARNING: If you renew your Standard online , your new ID will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can renew online. Your document type will stay the same. Renew non - driver ID online [4 ] 
Renew by mail 
WARNING: If you renew your Standard by mail , your new ID will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can renew by mail. Your document type will stay the same. You cannot renew by mail if you have a REAL ID or Enhanced non - driver ID with a photo that is over 16 years old. You must come into an office to take a new picture. Complete the notice we sent you and return it in the envelope provided. Be sure to include payment in the form of a check or money order payable to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles ". If you did not receive a renewal notice , you can use an Application for Permit, Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card pdf [5] MV-44. Mail with payment to NYS Department of Motor Vehicles207 Genesee Street, Suite 6Utica, NY 13501 - 2874 
Fee 
Learn more about Standard, REAL ID and Enhanced documents [2]. 
Reduced fee or 'No Fee' non-driver IDs 
If you receive Supplemental Security Income SSI and are under age 62 , your fee is $6.50 are age 62 or older , you can get a' No Fee' renewal If you have an Enhanced non - driver ID , the additional $30.00 still applies. To get a reduced fee or' No Fee' renewal , you must renew by mail or at a DMV office and provide proof of your eligibility. If you come to an office , you must bring an original copy of proof. If you apply by mail , send us a photocopy of your proof of SSI. You can't get a reduced or no fee renewal if you renew online. We accept these documents as proof of SSI that you are eligible for SSI benefits Notice of Award notifying you Cost of Living Adjustment COLA letter Notice of change in payment SSA - L8151 Third Party Query TPQY letter Report of Confidential Social Security Information SSA-2258 Benefit Verification letter you must call the Social Security Administration in advance to obtain this letter : 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 If you are age 62 or older and receive Supplemental Security Income SSI , your fee is $6.50 
You will get your new ID card in 2 weeks 
Allow 2 weeks to receive it in the mail. You can check the mailing status [6] of your photo document online. If your document is not delivered two weeks after the date the document was processed , you can contact us [7]. 
Additional information 

If you are turning 21 soon 
Wait until you are within 40 days of your 21st birthday to renew. If you renew 41 days or more before your 21st birthday , your ID will have UNDER 21 on it. If your renewal is processed than 40 days before your birthday , we will mail you a non - driver ID card the words UNDER 21 on or near the date of your birthday. 
Temporary Visitor 
As long as the Temporary Visitor status that DMV has on file is not expired you can renew your non - driver ID card online, through the mail or in an office. If your Temporary Visitor status has been extended , you must go to a DMV office with your updated paperwork from the United States Department of Homeland Security DHS. We will update our records to show that your Temporary Visitor status has been extended so you can renew your non - driver ID card. Your new non - driver ID card will have your new temporary visitor expiration date. 
Overseas (out of the country, abroad) 
When overseas , you must renew your non - drivers ID card through the mail. Please submit the renewal notice we mailed you , or if you don't have it , an Application for Permit, Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card pdf [5] MV-44 the appropriate fee We recommend that you send us a pre - addressed priority mail return envelope with your application. This will help ensure that we send your ID to the correct address. Renewal anytime within this period will not affect the expiration date of your new non - driver ID card or the fees. If your non - driver ID is expired for 2 years or more , you must apply for an original non - driver ID card. See Get a non - driver ID card NDID [8]. Starting in October 2020 , you will need an Enhanced or REAL ID to board a domestic flight unless you have a passport. If your non - driver ID was issued before October 30 , 2017 and is not Enhanced , you have a Standard document. Newly issued Standard documents show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. If you want to renew in an office and keep your Standard document type , follow these steps : Step 1 : Complete the renewal notice MV-2 we mailed you. if you did not receive a renewal notice , you can use an Application for Permit, Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card pdf [5] MV-44 Step 2 : Come to an office. Bring your current Standard non - driver ID your renewal notice or application payment Newly issued Standard documents state : ' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. If you renew online , you will need to pay the regular fees for a non - driver ID card renewal. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
ID Card [9 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Open a repair or body shop#3
document : To become a registered Repair Shop with the New York State DMV , you must consult the DMV Commissioner s Motor Vehicle Repair & Body Shop Regulations pdf [1] CR-82 download and read the Repair & Body Shop business requirements pdf [2] VS-145 submit the Original Facility Application pdf [3] VS-1 with all required documentation review the Repair Shop Zoning Requirements Letter pdf [4] VS-146 You can also call the DMV Office of Vehicle Safety and Clean Air at 1 - 518 - 474 - 4653 to get the forms, or call 1 - 518 - 474 - 0919 to get more information. 
How to apply 
You must submit Original Facility Application pdf [3] VS-1 that you have permission to use the property at the business location notarized statement from property owner, lease may be contingent on facility approval, sub - lease with primary lease, mortgage, deed or receipted tax bill proof proof of zoning : See the Repair Shop Zoning Requirements Letter pdf [4] VS-146 for the specific requirements your Sales Tax ID number and a copy of your Sales Tax Certificate of Authority which can be found on the Department of Tax and Finance website [5] you may need a FEIN from the IRS [6] before this step proof of Workers Compensation Insurance [7] for your employees if you do not have employees, indicate that on the application you can visit the NY State Workers Compensation Board website [7] for instructions on this process a photocopy of driver license or other government issued photo ID for everyone listed on the application a receipt for your purchase of the repair shop sign 1 all required fees , via a check payable to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles Note: you may need to submit a separate check for MV-50 fees if also applying to become a dealer a Filing Receipt from NY State Department of State website [8] Corporation or LLC or a Business Certificate from the County Clerk individual using assumed name or partnership 
Proof of zoning 
If you do not have proof of zoning , do not submit an application with DMV yet! Review the Repair Shop Zoning Requirements Letter VS-146 for specific zoning requirements. 
Certificate of Authority 
If you do not have your Certificate of Authority yet , do not submit an application with DMV yet! The Certificate of Authority and Sales Tax ID number are issued by the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance DTF. You may apply by visiting the NY State DTF website [5]. Be sure to record your Sales Tax ID on the Original Facility Application. 
Proof of Business Name 
If you do not have your Proof of Business Name yet , do not submit an application with DMV yet! Corporations and LLCs : You must submit a copy of your Filing Receipt from the Department of State. Instructions to file can be found on the NY State Department of State website [8]. Partnerships and Individuals Using an Assumed Name : You must submit a copy of your Business Certificate of Assumed Name. Contact your county clerk to obtain your business certificate. 
Proof of Workers Compensation Insurance 
If you do not have your proof of Workers Compensation Insurance yet , do not submit an application with DMV yet! If you have any employees family included you must submit proof of Workers Compensation Insurance. You can visit the NY State Workers Compensation Board website [7] for instructions on this process. If you do not have any employees , indicate that on your application. Click here for more Workers Compensation Insurance Information [9]. 
Send by mail 
You must submit a hard copy of your application, associated documents and fee to this address : NYS DMV Bureau of Consumer & Facility Services Application Unit P.O. Box 2700 Albany , NY 12220 - 0700 DMV's Vehicle Safety s Application Processing Unit will contact you. Once your application is complete and accurate you will be issued a repair shop registration. Note : Mobile Repair Shops require an on - site investigation. For more information contact Application Processing at 1 - 518 - 474 - 0919. 
Official repair shop sign 
DMV does not provide official repair shop signs. You may purchase these signs from various sign shops and automotive supply stores. See Motor Vehicle Repair & Body Shop Regulations pdf [1] CR-82 82.7 for specific requirements. 

title : Pay driver responsibility assessment#1
document : 
Pay driver responsibility assessment [1] 

What is a driver responsibility assessment? 
The driver responsibility assessment is a fee you must pay to DMV over a three year period if you are convicted of certain traffic offenses in New York State or accumulate 6 or more points on your driving record within 18 months. This fee is in addition to any fines, penalties or surcharges that you must pay for a traffic conviction. The purpose of the assessment is to prevent the repeated behavior of problem drivers and to improve traffic safety. 
Who must pay? 
Effective November 18 , 2004 , you must pay a driver responsibility assessment if you were convicted of an alcohol or drugged driving - related traffic offense while driving a motor vehicle, boat, or snowmobile in New York State you were found to have refused to take a chemical test for blood alcohol content in New York State you received 6 or more points on your NY State driver record within an 18 month period for convictions of traffic offenses committed in New York, Quebec or Ontario You must pay the driver responsibility assessment whether you have a driver license issued by New York State, another jurisdiction or if you do not have a driver license. 
How much do I have to pay? 
The amount depends on the type of violation or the total number of points on your driving record. If you are convicted of an alcohol or drugged driving - related offense or if you refuse to take a chemical test , the annual assessment is $250. The minimum amount that you must pay each year is the annual assessment. The total assessment for the three years is $750. If you receive 6 points on your driver record for violations committed during a period of 18 months , the annual assessment is $100. The minimum amount that you must pay each year is the annual assessment. The total assessment for the three years is $300. If you receive more than 6 points on your driver record during a period of 18 months , the annual assessment is $25 for each point in addition to the original six points. The minimum amount that you must pay each year is the annual assessment. The total assessment for the three years is $75 for each point in addition to the original 6 points. If you must pay a driver responsibility assessment , DMV will send you a statement with the amount you owe. You must pay at least the minimum amount by the payment date or your driver license will be suspended. You can also pay the full assessment. The amount you owe may increase if you are convicted of additional offenses after your statement is issued. 
Pay online 
You can pay online using a credit or debit card. 3 You must pay at least the minimum amount or you can pay the full assessment. Your name and address on DMV records must be correct. You must provide the last four digits of your Social Security Number your DMV ID Number Client ID Number from your NY State driver license , learner permit or non - driver photo ID card see where to find information on your driver license [2], or your full name , date of birth and gender If your driver license is suspended because you did not pay an assessment , the suspension will be removed after your payment is processed. Pay driver responsibility assessment online [3 ] 
By mail 
Send the minimum amount on your DRA statement before the payment date to : DRA Processing CenterState Office Building P.O. Box 359Utica , NY 13503 You must enclose a check or money order payable to. Starter checks, cash, or credit cards cannot be accepted. Do not include any other DMV fees or fines. 
At a DMV office 
Bring a check or money order payable to for at least the minimum amount on your statement to your local DMV office. 
What happens if I do not pay? 
If you do not pay the driver responsibility assessment by the payment date on your statement , DMV will suspend your driver license, your learner permit, or your driving privileges. 
What do the dates on my statement mean? 
violation date - date that the incident occurred the date you received the ticket you were found guilty of the violation at a traffic court or DMV hearing conviction date - date assessment date - date that DMV enters the violation on your record - DMV uses the date of the original assessment to determine the annual statement dates and to check your driver record for new incidents that DMV issued your statement annual statement date - date payment date - final date that you can pay a driver responsibility assessment to avoid a suspension of your driver license, learner permit, or driving privileges 
How does the DMV calculate my driver violation points? 
To learn how DMV calculates your point total , see information about the New York State driver violation point system [4]. 
How can I check if a suspension has been removed, or get information about the status of my license? 
To check if a suspension has been removed or to get information about the status of your driver license , sign up for a MyDMV [5]. 
How can I find out how many points are on my driving record? 
To check the number of points on your driving record , sign up for a MyDMV [5]. 
Can I reduce the amount of the driver responsibility assessment if I complete a DMV-approved Point and Insurance Reduction Program course? 
No. Taking a Point and Insurance Reduction Program coursedoes not eliminate the requirement to pay the assessment or reduce the amount. Normally , you receive three annual statements. When you receive the first annual assessment statement , you can pay the annual assessment , or you can pay the total assessment for the three year period. When you receive the second annual assessment statement , you can pay the annual assessment or the total assessment for the two years that remain. You can also pay the total balance of assessments that remains at any time. For example , you have a total assessment of $300 , and you pay the minimum payment of $100 due from your first annual statement. You can pay the $200 balance at any time. You do not need to wait until you receive the second annual statement. To pay your DRA balance in this situation , you must pay the amount of the additional assessments as well as the balance of the initial assessment. For example , your initial total assessment is $300. You must pay the $100 due on the first annual statement. Your balance is $200 , but an additional total assessment of $150 is added to your DRA account after you paid the $100 annual assessment. You cannot pay the $200 balance on the initial assessment unless you also pay the $150 balance of the additional assessment. To pay your total DRA balance , you would have to pay $350. You will be informed that there are additional assessments if you attempt to pay the balance of an initial assessment that does not include the additional assessments. You are not required to pay the balance of assessments before you receive the annual statements. You can pay the annual assessment each year for three years until the balance is paid. If you do pay the balance , you will not receive future annual statements for assessments included in that balance. The DMV accepts : American Express Card Discover Card /Novus MasterCard MasterCard Debit card without personal identification number PIN VISA Card Visa Debit Card without personal identification number PIN You can confirm or change your address online , but you must create a MyDMV account first [5]. If you need to change your name , you must go to a DMV office. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Tickets [6 ] 
show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Exchange your out-of-state driver license#1
document : 
Exchange your out-of-state driver license[1] 
You must exchange your - out - state driver license from another U.S. state or territory, federal district or Canadian province within 30 days of becoming a resident of New York. Your out - of - state license must have your photograph be valid or expired less than 24 months have been issued at least 6 months before you apply for a New York license unless it is commercial driver license that has been valid for any amount of time 2 You cannot exchange your license if it is suspended or revoked 3 lost or stolen 4 a hardship or an " employment only driver license " 5 marked " non - renewable " or " non - transferable " 6 Your New York license will be valid for 5 years. 
At the DMV 
This transaction can only be processed in person, at a DMV office. You will need to pass a vision test at the DMV or bring a completed Eye Test Report PDF [2] MV-619 surrender your out - of - state license, unless it is lost or stolen bring proof of identity Complete this guide to make sure you have the documents and proofs of identity you need. Find your proofs [3 ] We will give you a temporary non - photo license document. Allow 2 weeks for your new license to arrive in the mail. For quicker service , make a reservation online before visiting offices in New York City, Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Onondaga, Monroe or Albany Counties. For all other counties , see our office locations and hours [4]. Make a Reservation [5 ] * Residents of these counties must pay the Metropolitan Commuter Transportation District MCTD fee $10 : Bronx, Kings Brooklyn , New York Manhattan , Queens , Richmond Staten Island , Dutchess , Nassau , Orange , Putnam , Rockland , Suffolk and Westchester. Enhanced documents have an additional $30.00 fee. We accept cash most credit, pinless debit or prepaid cards American Express, Discover Card / Novus, MasterCard, VISA a personal check or a money order payable to 
Additional information 

I am studying in New York State. Do I need a New York State driver license? 
Students from other states, countries or nations who attend school in New York State are normally not considered residents of New York State, so they don t need to exchange their current driver license. Normally, you can t have a NY State driver license and a driver license from another state at the same time , but there are exceptions. However , it is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license CDL. 
Drivers from other countries 
You can drive in New York State with a valid driver license from another country. You do not need to apply for a New York State driver license unless you become a New York State resident. To get a New York State driver license , you must pass a written test, complete a 5-hour pre - licensing course and pass a road test. See Get a driver license [6]. When you pass your road test , you must give your foreign driver license to the DMV road test examiner. The local DMV office will destroy your foreign driver license after 60 days. If you plan to return to your home country and will need your foreign driver license , ask the road test examiner how to make sure that your foreign driver license is not destroyed. The DMV has additional resources for drivers from other countries [7]. To live in a house, a home, an apartment, a room or other similar place in NYS for 90 days is considered " presumptive evidence " that you are a resident of New York State. A police officer can use this as evidence to issue a traffic ticket if you drive in New York State without a New York State driver license or vehicle registration. A judge considers the law and the evidence of your intent and decides if you are a resident of New York State. If you pay taxes or your children attend school in another state , a judge considers these facts to decide if your intent is to make NYS a " fixed and permanent " residence. According to this law , students from other states or from other nations who attend school in New York State are usually not considered residents of NYS. DMV does not decide if you are a resident of New York State, if you must get a NYS driver license, or if you must register your vehicle in New York State. If your out - of - state photo driver license does not show the date it was issued, get a certified driver license record or letter from the state that issued the license that indicates the date of issue. If you cannot get a letter or abstract , you must apply for a new, original driver license. See Get your first driver license [6]. If your out - of - state driver license or Canadian driver license is suspended or revoked , you cannot apply for a NY State driver license. You must remove the suspension or revocation and bring to a NY State DMV office a valid driver license that meets the requirements listed above. be a photo driver license show that your out - of - state driver license was valid for at least 6 months Instead of a replacement driver license , you can apply to the previous state for a letter or certified driver abstract. The letter or abstract must be an original document on the letterhead of the agency that issued your driver license before you submit the letter or driver abstract to us issued by the other state within six months the letter or driver abstract must contain all of the following information your name , address , date of birth and driver license identification number the type or class of driver license and any restrictions a list any convictions, suspensions or revocations the date your driver license was issued and the expiration date of your most recent driver license A letter or driver abstract has no value as proof of identity or date of birth. You must apply for an original NY State driver license [6]. You must apply for an original NY State driver license [6]. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Driver License [8 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Commercial vehicle registration fees, vehicle use taxes and supplemental fees#3
document : 
Determine the fees for commercial vehicles 
Use both theregistration fee and county use tax charts to determine your registration fee and county use tax. If this is the original registration of your vehicle , you must pay the fees for your vehicle plates $25.00 your title certificate fee of $50.00 the sales tax 1 
Registration fee chart for commercial vehicles 
The fees listed in the chart are for commercial vehicles that weigh less than 18,000 lbs. Diesel - powered commercial vehicles that weigh 8,501 pounds or more require an additional fee. 2 If you transfer vehicle plates for one vehicle to another , you cannot use this chart to calculate your fee. 
County use taxes and supplemental fees 
Residents of New York City and several counties in New York must pay a vehicle use tax when they register a commercial vehicle or renew a commercial vehicle registration. The DMV collects the taxes for the city and the counties. Read the table below to determine if you must pay a vehicle use tax. If you have questions about these taxes , ask the city or county where you reside or have a business. If you reside outside New York City and you are exempt from the vehicle use tax in the county where you reside or have a business , complete form UT-11C. If you reside in New York City and you are exempt from the NYC vehicle use tax , get form UT-11 from a local DMV office [1] or a DMV Call Center [2]. 
New York City Bronx, Kings (Brooklyn), New York (Manhattan), Queens, Richmond (Staten Island) 
All passenger vehicle original registrations and renewals Vehicle use tax - $80 for 2 years $40 / year Livery and for - hire vehicles in these registration classes - $400 for 1 year 3 Livery OML Bus (OMR) Taxi OMT Supplemental MCTD fee - $50 for two years $25 per year Note : The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission regulates all " TC " vehicle plates. All registrants for " TC " vehicle plates must pay the vehicle use tax. 
County use tax chart for counties outside of New York City 
The chart show the use taxes and supplemental fees for all original registrations and renewals. The amount of the sales tax depends on the purchase price and your locality. You can see the current sales tax rates by jurisdiction [3] at the Department of Taxation and Finance website. To determine the correct fee , add 3.25% to the fee listed in the chart , and change the result to the nearest $0.25. Several registration classes are exempt from the additional fee. The classes include Agricultural AGR, Ambulance AMB, Farm FAR, Historical HIS, House Trailer HOU, Semi Trailer SEM, Special Purpose Commercial SPC, and Trailer TRL. This tax applies to Medallion taxis with a plate number configuration of " TnnnnnC " or " TnnnnnnC ". This tax does not include Medallion taxis with plate number configurations: " TnnnnnT ", " TnnnnnnT ", " nana ", " nanna ", " nnnSBVa " and " nnnSBVan ". n = number, a = letter. 

title : Learner permit restrictions#3
document : No matter what age you are , if you hold a learner permit , you may not drive unless accompanied by a supervising driver age 21 or older who has a valid license to operate the vehicle you are driving. For example , only a person with a motorcycle license may supervise a person learning to drive a motorcycle. You may not drive with a learner permit on any street within a park in New York City on any bridge or tunnel under the jurisdiction of the Tri - borough Bridge and Tunnel Authority on the Cross County, Hutchinson River, Saw Mill River, or Taconic State parkways in Westchester County in a DMV road test area 
Under age 18? 
If you are under age 18 or are the parent of a driver under age 18 , it is very important that you understand the Graduated Driver License GDL Law and the restrictions on drivers under age 18 [1]. 
How long do I have to wait after I get my learner permit to take my road test? 
If you are under age 18 , you must wait at least 6 months from the date you received your learner permit to schedule your road test. If you have a motorcycle learner permit Class M, MJ or Limited MJ , your supervising driver must : exercise general supervision of you while you operate the motorcycle , and remain within one - quarter mile of you , keeping you in sight at all times The only passenger who can ride with you on the motorcycle is your supervising driver. If you operate a moped with any valid class of learner permit , the same passenger rules apply. 

title : Get a learner permit#1
document : 
Get a learner permit[1] 
Getting a permit is the first step to get your driver license. Most people apply for a Class' D - Operator' permit. 1 You must be 16 or older and must apply in person at a DMV office. Here are the steps you need to take : 
Step 1: Be prepared to take the written permit test 
study the NY State Driver's Manual and take the practice tests [2 ] class D and M permit tests are given in 14 languages: English, Albanian, Arabic, Bosnian, Chinese, French, Greek, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Russian and Spanish to pass , you must get at least 14 of the 20 multiple - choice questions correct this includes the correct answers to at least two of the four questions about road signs if you are applying for a motorcycle permit [3], you must get at least three out of the five motorcycle questions correct 
Step 2: Know what to bring to the DMV 
complete this guide to make sure you have the documents and proofs of identification you need BEFORE going to the DMV Find your proofs [4 ] Bringing a parent or guardian is required if you are using the " Statement of Identity and/or Residence by Parent / Guardian PDF [5] " MV-45. 
Step 3: Go to the DMV 
find an office location [6] and see if a reservation is necessary for written test apply and pay for your permit use the fee chart to estimate your cost [7 ] take your written test if you fail, you can try again at no additional cost For quicker service , make a reservation online before visiting offices in New York City, Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Onondaga, Monroe or Albany Counties. For all other counties , see our office locations and hours [6]. Make a Reservation [8 ] 
Step 4: Wait up to 2 weeks for your permit to come in the mail 
your permit will be valid for approximately 5 years the exact expiration date depends on your date of birth and the date that you applied once you have your permit , you can move onto Step 5. 
Step 5: Prepare for your road test 
you must have supervised driving practice 2 you must take a pre - licensing course or a driver education course before you take your road test learn how to find a pre - licensing course and prepare for your road test [9 ] you will need to follow all learner permit restrictions [10 ] If you are under age 18 , you must wait at least 6 months from the date you received your learner permit to schedule your road test. 
Step 6: Take your road test 
before your permit expires take your road test you renew a permit [11 ] schedule & take a road test [12 ] if you pass your test , the examiner will give you an interim license that allows you to drive keep the interim license with your photo permit until your new license arrives in the mail in about 2 weeks if you fail , start again at Step 5 
Still haven't found what you are looking for? 
See a list of learner permit topics [13]. There are special requirements to apply for a motorcycle permit / license [3], a commercial learner permit [14], a taxi license [15], or enhanced permit [16]. 2 . if you are under 18, a Certification of Supervised Driving PDF [17] MV-262 completed by your parent or guardian. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Driver License [18 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Unsatisfied Judgments#3
document : 
I received a suspension order for an unsatisfied judgment related to a motor vehicle accident, collision or crash. What do I need to do? 
To remove a suspension related to an unsatisfied judgment , you must resolve the judgment. If you were notified that there is an unsatisfied judgment suspension on your record you must contact the attorney or court that issued the judgment. The information on the suspension order will advise you of the name of the court and the court index number for the judgment. The DMV cannot clear the suspension without proof from the court. Once you receive the original documentation from the court or attorney , you must send the original documents to DMV for clearance. If you do not know which court to contact , you can call the NY State DMV Insurance Services Bureau. See Contact us [1]. 
How do I get an unsatisfied judgment against another motorist? 
To get an unsatisfied judgment against a motorist as a result of a motor vehicle accident, collision or crash , you must file a Supporting Affirmation PDF [2] SR-60 and the other documents listed on the affirmation SR-60. 
Will the DMV suspend the driver license and all of the registrations of a person who has an unsatisfied judgment against them? 
Yes. The DMV will suspend the license and registrations if the person fails to pay or satisfy a judgment of more than $1,000 and the judgment is related to a motor vehicle accident, collision or crash which causes property damage, bodily injury or death. The DMV will also suspend all vehicle registrations of the company the privilege to register another vehicle 

title : Replace or transfer personalized plates#1
document : 
Replace or transfer personalized plates[1] 

How do I replace or transfer personalized plates? 
There are a variety of circumstances in which you can replace or transfer personalized plates. 
Can I replace personalized plates that are old or damaged? 
Yes , for a fee. To replace your personalized plates that are old or damaged , you must call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. The fees are $28.75 for passenger vehicle plates, and $18.75 for motorcycle plates. 
Can I replace the personalized plates I have now with different personalized plates or personalized picture plates? 
Yes , for a fee. To replace your current personalized plates with new custom plates or personalized plates , you must call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. 
I have a personalized picture plate, and want to replace it with a different picture plate. Can I keep my current personalized combination and use it on my new picture plate? 
If the category of plate you want allows personalized combinations containing the number of characters on your current plates , you may have the combination on your new custom plates. Most picture plates require a $31.25 annual personalized fee in addition to the $31.25 custom plate fee. You must also pay a plate fee for the new plates , but you will get credit for the custom plate fees you already paid on your current registration. Contact the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. 
Can I transfer a current set of personalized plates to a new vehicle that I plan to purchase? 
Yes. If the registrant and registration class will not change , instruct the automobile dealer to transfer your personalized plates to your new vehicle. If you purchase the vehicle from a private person , ask the DMV to transfer your personalized plates when you register the vehicle. 
If I remove a vehicle from the road, can I keep my personalized plates? 
Yes. You can store your personalized plates at most DMV offices. Find a DMV office. [2] You will receive a receipt form FS-6 T when you surrender your personalized plates. Verify the information listed on the receipt, and make sure that the receipt displays the words, " Stored at Local Office, and keep this receipt. We will indicate on the registration record that the vehicle plates have been stored. To register the vehicle again, or to use your stored personalized plates to register another vehicle , you must visit the DMV office that has your vehicle plates. Make sure that you bring the receipt form FS-6 T and the other documents required to register your vehicle. For example : You have IMJOE standard series personalized plates, with an annual fee of $31.25 $62.50 per two - year registration. You order IMJOE on a picture plate e.g., NASCAR, Yankees and pay the $62.50 annual custom plate fee $125 at the next two - year renewal in addition to other renewal fees, plus plate and document fees. The online custom plate order system cannot give you credit for the custom plate fees you have already paid on your current registration , but the Custom Plates Unit can. The policy to store vehicle plates is different in each office. 
Do it by phone: 
You must replace or transfer personalized plates by phone. Call the Custom Plates Unit at 1 - 518 - 402 - 4838. Office hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm, Monday through Friday. 
Do it by mail: 
You can t replace or transfer personalized plates by mail. 
Do it at the DMV: 
You can t replace or transfer personalized plates at the DMV. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Plates [3 ] 
show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 


title : In-transit vehicle permits (temporary registrations)#3
document : 
To bring a vehicle from another state to register in New York 
If you purchase a vehicle in another state , you will need to go through that state's DMV office to get a temporary plate and registration to transport the vehicle to New York. Once the vehicle is in New York , you will need to follow the steps to register and title a vehicle [1] here. 
To bring a vehicle purchased in New York State to another state 
You can apply for an in - transit permit, which will allow you to transport a vehicle from a location in New York State to a location outside of New York State. 
To bring a vehicle purchased in New York State to another part of New York State to register 
You can apply for an an in - transit permit, which will allow you to transport a vehicle from a location within New York to another location within New York. 
In-transit permits duration 
They are valid 30 days. 
Fee 
$12.50. 
Apply for an in-transit permit 
Bring these items to a DMV office [2 ] a completed In - Transit Permit / Title Application pdf [3] MV-82ITP proof of ownership 1 proof of identity 2 payment for in - transit permit fee 3 proof of insurance 4 Print this checklist [4 ] 
Acceptable proof of insurance if you are not a resident of New York State 
If you are a resident of New York State , you may submit one of these proofs of insurance name of insurance company policy number and expiration date effective date insured's name and address vehicle information including year, make and VIN the name and address of the producer the name and address of the insured the name of the insurance company the effective and expiration dates of the policy a complete vehicle description including year, make and VIN Any Auto All Owned Autos Scheduled Autos 
Not all vehicles need proof of insurance to apply for a vehicle permit 
Vehicles that do not require insurance in New York State (e.g. light trailers) are not required to present proof of insurance. 
Original insurance cards 
All Insurance ID Cards must be original documents. A letter or an insurance binder can be an original document or a fax sent to a DMV office by the insurer. Photocopies are not acceptable. 
Non-New York State Residents can apply 
You do not need to be a New York State resident to apply for an in - transit permit. Proof of ownership can be Certificate of Title MV-999 Manufacturer s Certificate of Origin MCO Manufacturer s Statement of Origin MSO Statement of Ownership MV-51B Findings DMV Administrative Hearing Transferable Registration You must be at least 16 years old except for ATV and boat registrations. driver license learner permit , or non - driver ID card If you don t have one of these , see other kinds of proof [5] you can use. For intrastate permits , you may also need to pay title or lien fees and sales tax. These proofs of insurance are acceptable NY State Insurance ID Card FS -20 or FS-21 Insurance Certificate For Hire Passenger Vehicle FH-1 or FH-2 Corporate Surety Bond For Hire Passenger Vehicle FH-1B or FH-2B The preparation date must be 7 days or less from the date of your application for the vehicle permit. Additionally , the Temporary Insurance ID Card FS-75 must have " in - transit " or " in - transit permit " printed or written on it , and you must provide an In - transit Cancellation Authorization form this is not a DMV form from the insurance agent or broker who prepared the card. See sample insurance documents [6]. 

title : Let the Buyer be Aware#3
document : 
Buying from a Dealer 
In New York State , every automotive dealer must register with the Department of Motor Vehicles DMV. A registered dealer must obey certain state and federal laws that protect your purchase of a new or used car, truck, or other motor vehicle, including one sold as " salvage. " New vehicles are also protected by manufacturer's warranty. You can search for registered Automotive Dealers by using the Find a DMV - regulated Business [1] service. When you buy a used vehicle , the dealer must certify, in writing, that it is " in condition and repair to render, under normal use, satisfactory and adequate service upon the public highway at the time of delivery. " The dealer certification covers the entire vehicle except items that would be obvious to the customer before the sale, such as torn upholstery, missing hubcaps, etc. The vehicle also must have all safety equipment and emissions controls required by state and federal laws for the vehicle's model year. 
A dealer also must: 
have the vehicle inspected before selling it to a retail customer, even if the vehicle is new. The inspection must be done within 30 days of the date of sale and before you take delivery. The dealer may charge you the inspection fee. provide service or repairs under the manufacturer's warranty if the dealer is franchised by that manufacturer. Warranty service also may be available from other dealers franchised by the manufacturer. indicate, in writing, on the bill of sale whether a vehicle sold to a retail buyer is new, used, reconstructed, rebuilt salvage, or originally not manufactured to U.S. standards see Title Branding. For motor vehicles that are 10 model years old or newer , the seller must complete the odometer disclosure statement on the back of the title certificate. For vehicles older than 10 model years , odometer disclosure is not required. The damage disclosure statement on the back of the title certificate must be completed regardless of the vehicle s age. Note : The DMV will not register or grant title to a salvaged vehicle without a completed salvage disclosure statement. In addition , the DMV must examine each vehicle branded or identified by the seller as " Rebuilt Salvage " for stolen parts before the vehicle can be registered or titled. complete and sign an odometer disclosure statement if the vehicle is 10 model years old or newer. This statement is on the Retail Certificate of Sale MV-50. The buyer also must acknowledge and sign the odometer statement. indicate on the sales contract when a passenger car had been used primarily as a police car, taxicab, driver education or rental car. If a lien is being recorded or the dealer issued number plates , the dealer MUST handle the registration for you. The dealer may charge you up to $75 for this service, plus the actual fees for the vehicle's Certificate of Title MV-999, registration, and license plates. As a customer courtesy , a registered dealer may submit your completed Vehicle Registration / Title Application MV-82 to the DMV. The dealer also may provide a temporary certificate of registration and, if needed, new license plates. 
Buying From a Private Seller 
One advantage of buying a vehicle from a private seller is the possibility of lower cost compared to buying from a dealer. However , there are disadvantages. A private seller does not have to follow important regulations that a dealer must obey. In addition , a private seller rarely offers a warranty. If you have a complaint about the vehicle or purchase , you are on your own to resolve the problem with the seller, or in taking legal action. You cannot file a complaint with the DMV or other consumer assistance agencies if you buy a defective vehicle in a private sale. If you buy a vehicle 8 model years old or newer , the DMV will NOT register or issue you a new title certificate unless the seller has completed, and you have signed, the damage disclosure statement on the reverse of the vehicle's Certificate of Title MV-999 or have attached a completed damage disclosure on an Odometer and Damage Disclosure Statement MV-103. This statement indicates whether or not the vehicle's new title certificate should be branded " Rebuilt Salvage " see Title Branding. An Odometer and Damage Disclosure Statement pdf [2] MV-103 is available at any motor vehicle office. For motor vehicles that are 10 model years old or newer , the seller must complete the odometer disclosure statement on the back of the title certificate. For vehicles older than 10 model years , odometer disclosure is not required. The damage disclosure statement on the back of the title certificate must be completed regardless of the vehicle s age. IMPORTANT : THE DMV MUST EXAMINE EVERY VEHICLE IDENTIFIED AS " REBUILT SALVAGE " FOR STOLEN PARTS BEFORE THE VEHICLE CAN BE REGISTERED OR TITLED. 
Title Branding 
If a vehicle has been rebuilt, originally not manufactured to U.S. standards, or reconstructed , a branding notice must be printed in capital letters on the front of the New York State title certificate. A dealer must inform a customer, in writing, if a branded vehicle is being shown or sold to a retail customer. This may be a notice placed on the dealer's bill of sale or handed to the customer. You can also find a printed notice on the front of the title certificate if a vehicle previously had been returned to the manufacturer, its agent, or dealer because it did not conform to warranty. It also will be printed on the title after a final determination of a court finding or settlement under the state's Lemon Law. This notice will read : " IMPORTANT : THIS VEHICLE WAS RETURNED TO THE MANUFACTURER OR DEALER BECAUSE IT DID NOT CONFORM TO ITS WARRANTY. " The brands below may be printed on a New York State Certificate of Title MV-999 for 1973 and newer vehicles : 
REBUILT SALVAGE/NY 
A vehicle with this label has been rebuilt after being wrecked, destroyed or damaged in excess of 75 percent of its retail value at the time of loss, or originally had entered New York State under a branded out - of - state title. Previous branding includes Salvage, Rebuilt Salvage, Salvage Restored, Junk, Parts Only, Water Damage, or other description. The Rebuilt Salvage branding will remain on the title for as long as the vehicle exists, no matter how many improvements are made to the vehicle. 
NON-USA-STD 
A vehicle with this label was not originally manufactured in compliance with United States emissions or safety standards, or both. 
RECONSTRUCTED 
A vehicle with this label has been repaired or constructed with a glider kit, but not one manufactured in two or more stages. A glider kit includes all components of a vehicle except the power train. It is generally used to rebuild heavy trucks or tractors that have been extensively damaged. Passenger cars built from custom kits are not considered reconstructed vehicles. 
Reported Mileage 
Vehicles over 10 model years old are exempt from mileage disclosure. For all other titled vehicles , the odometer mileage reported during the vehicle's most recent transfer of ownership is printed on the front of its New York State Certificate of Title MV-999. If the odometer had passed its maximum reading at the time of sale , the description " EXCEEDS MECHANICAL LIMITS " will be printed below the reported mileage. If the actual mileage is unknown because the odometer is broken, or has been repaired or replaced , the front of the title will be printed with " NOT ACTUAL MILEAGE, WARNING ODOMETER DISCREPANCY. " 
Choosing a Vehicle 
National Motor Vehicle Title Information System NMVTIS Vehicle History For Consumers [3] at YouTube Vehicle price is not controlled by any government agency. Take time to choose a vehicle that meets your needs and budget. Before you buy a vehicle , compare prices by checking newspaper ads and visit a number of dealers and/or private sellers. Then take it for a test drive. If you are knowledgeable , examine the engine, transmission, drive axles, steering and suspension, brakes and electrical system. If you do not know what to look for , it may be wise to pay a professional automotive technician to examine the vehicle. Before you buy from a dealer , find out about dealer or manufacturer warranties, what they cover, and for how long. Ask if the dealer performs service or subcontracts to a repair shop. Be sure all agreements, guarantees and warranties are in writing. 
What to look for 
Examine the vehicle in bright daylight. Look carefully at the body for signs of collision damage or rust. Check the paint and vinyl top, sides, or trim for signs of wear or damage. Check all lights, lenses and mirrors for cracks or other damage. Look inside the vehicle for signs of wear or damage that may reduce its value, such as splits or holes in the upholstery. Make sure all seat belts are in place, and in good working condition. Look under the rugs or mats for dampness or water damage, which could mean there are body leaks. Open the trunk or rear hatch and check for leaks. Examine the spare tire, taking it out if necessary. Make sure the jack and lug wrench are there. Examine the engine compartment for signs of rusted metal around fenders, oil leaks, or excessive dirt on the engine. These can be signs of high mileage. Look at and feel rubber parts such as fan belts and radiator hoses. If they are hard, cracked or too soft , they should be replaced. Make sure the exhaust emissions control systems are intact and working. Start the vehicle when the engine is cold and listen to make sure it runs smoothly when cold. While the engine warms , check the dash gauges and all inside and outside lights. Make sure the heater, defrosters, air conditioner, windshield washer and wipers work properly. If the vehicle is properly registered , you may choose to take it for a test drive. The engine should accelerate smoothly , and the transmission should shift without hesitation, roughness or loud noises. Drive the vehicle on a straight, flat surface, and let go of the steering wheel for a moment to see if the front wheels follow a straight track without pulling to either side. When braking , there should be no unusual noise, vibration, or pulling to either side. Your test drive should include stop - and - go driving on local streets and driving at highway speeds, over a variety of surfaces and several hills. Note how well the vehicle runs and handles. Also , check to see if the engine overheats. If you are satisfied after the test drive , have the vehicle raised on a lift or jacks. Examine the condition of the brakes, tires, front and rear suspension, exhaust system and catalytic converter. Look for oil or fluid leaks underneath. 
Taking Delivery 
If you decide the vehicle is in good condition and worth the price , be sure the seller has the proper ownership and transfer documents. Ask the seller, and examine the title certificate, for information about unsatisfied liens bank loans, etc . . Carefully examine all documents before you pay for the vehicle. In a private sale , have the seller make out a bill of sale in addition to the ownership and sales tax documents. 
Proofs of Vehicle Ownership 
the proof of ownership is a Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin MCO and the dealer's " Certificate of Sale " MV-50. the proof of ownership is the Certificate of Title MV-999, or a transferable registration for 1972 and older models, signed over to the dealer, and the dealer's Certificate of Sale MV-50 showing ownership transfer to you. The dealer must complete , and you must acknowledge by signing, the appropriate odometer and damage disclosure statements. the proof of ownership is the Certificate of Title MV-999, or a transferable registration for 1972 or older models, signed over to you. The seller must complete , and you must acknowledge by signing, the appropriate odometer and damage disclosure statements. Be sure the private seller completes the seller's section of the form Statement of Transaction - Sale or Gift of Motor Vehicle, Trailer, All - Terrain Vehicle ATV, Vessel Boat, or Snowmobile pdf [4] at NY State Department of Tax and Finance DTF-802, available at motor vehicle offices or at the DMV web site. This form certifies the purchase price and determines the sales tax you must pay when registering the vehicle. If the form is not filled out by the seller , you will be charged sales tax based on the vehicle's current fair market value. Before you accept the title certificate from the seller , check the front of the title for the names and addresses of lien holders. A lien indicates the current owner owes money on a loan for the vehicle. If a lien is listed on the title, ask the seller to give you the proof the lien has been paid - in most cases, it will be an official from the lender. If proof is not provided , the lien holder could repossess the vehicle from you. If you have a concern or question about the title, registration, sales tax or proof of ownership , contact the DMV Call Center or any motor vehicle office before you buy the vehicle. 
Trading In or Selling Your Vehicle 
Before you trade in or sell your old vehicle , be sure to remove the license plates and the windshield registration sticker, which shows your plate number. This will help prevent you from being charged with parking tickets that do not belong to you. Turn in the plates to a motor vehicle office unless you are transferring them to a replacement vehicle. Always turn in your plates before you cancel liability insurance or before the insurance lapses. If you do not, your registration will be suspended , and your driver license could be suspended as well. When transferring the vehicle's title certificate to a new owner , you must fill out the appropriate odometer and damage disclosure statements, and sign your name at " Seller's Signature. " Then enter the seller's information on the sales tax form Statement of Transaction - Sale or Gift of Motor Vehicle, Trailer, All - Terrain Vehicle ATV, Vessel Boat, or Snowmobile pdf [4] at NY State Department of Tax and Finance DTF-802, available at any motor vehicle office and the DMV internet site. 
Department of Motor Vehicles Consumer Assistance 
If you have a complaint about your vehicle , bring it to the attention of the dealership management right away. Keep a record of all contacts with the dealer about the vehicle and any repairs or adjustments made. Keep copies of all work orders and invoices as proof of your attempts to resolve the problem. If you cannot resolve the problem with the dealer , write to: Bureau of Consumer and Facility Services, PO Box 2700-ESP, Albany, NY 12220 - 0700, or phone 518 474 - 8943 between 8:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. weekdays. If your complaint concerns a repair , you must file it with the Department of Motor Vehicles within 90 days or 3,000 miles of the repair, whichever comes first. If your complaint does not fall within its jurisdiction , DMV will refer you to the proper agency. 
Lemon Laws 
New York State's new and used car lemon laws provide legal remedies for consumers who buy or lease cars. If a car does not live up to the written warranty and cannot be repaired - or if it has not been repaired correctly after a reasonable number of attempts - the consumer could receive a refund or replacement car. For information and assistance concerning the Lemon Laws , contact : Office of the Attorney General [5] Albany , NY 12224 Telephone : 1 - 800 - 771 - 7755 or 1 - 518 - 474 - 5481 or any regional office of the Attorney General. You may also contact: Department of State, Division of Consumer Protection Consumer Assistance Unit 99 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12231 - 0001 Telephone : 1 - 800 - 697 - 1220 or 1 - 518 - 474 - 8583. DMV CALL CENTER TELEPHONE NUMBERS [6 ] NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLESMark J. F. Schroeder , Commissioner C-18 12/99 Return to DMV Publications [7 ] 

title : Temporary surrender of vehicle plates (store plates for a season)#3
document : 
Surrender plates temporarily or for a season 
You can surrender your vehicle plates at a local DMV office and reinstate the registration later. For example , you can surrender your vehicle plates and cancel liability insurance when you take your vehicle off the road for the winter. 
Surrender in an office 
Bring your plates to a local DMV office and request a receipt for transfer. Do not request a registration fee refund receipt. Be sure to remove plate frames and fasteners before you surrender them. We will not accept plates with frames or fasteners attached. 
Plate storage 
The DMV does not store standard vehicle plates. If you surrender standard plates , they will be destroyed. You can apply for reinstatement of the registration at any DMV office that processes registration transactions. The DMV office will issue a new set of vehicle plates and can charge a vehicle plate fee of up to $25.00. If you surrender personalized plates or custom plates , the DMV office will store them. You must apply for the reinstatement of the registration at the same DMV office where you surrendered your personalized plates or custom plates. 
Reinstate surrendered plates 
You must apply in a DMV office to reinstatement of your registration and receive vehicle plates. Bring the following items a completed Application for Registration or Title pdf [1] MV-82 when you surrendered your vehicle plates the receipt FS-6 T you received an NY State Insurance ID Card FS-20 that shows current insurance coverage see a sample [2 ] your proof of identity and date of birth a check or cash for any fees Remember that the registration expires on the same date as the registration you surrendered. If you reinstate your registration within 60 days before the registration expires , you can renew the registration and pay the renewal fees. 

title : Register a vehicle#1
document : 
Register a vehicle 

Register and title a passenger or commerical car, truck or SUV 
You or your business must register and title at a DMV office any vehicle you own or lease. Registrations don t need to be in the owner's name, or for only one person. Auto dealers can register and title vehicles, and issue plates and charge a fee for this. 
Step 1: Get your vehicle insured 
You must register your vehicle at the DMV within 180 days of the effective date on your insurance ID card. 
Step 2: Bring required documents to the DMV 

What you need to register 
Complete DMV s Document Guide to make sure you have the correct proofs of identification and other documents before you come to a DMV office. 
Summary of what you need 
the original title or other proof of ownership 2 the current NY State Insurance ID card auto liability insurance 3 the bill of sale and proof of sales tax payment / sales tax form 4 your NY State driver license , permit , non - driver ID , or other proof of identity 5 payment for fees and taxes or proof of an exemption a Vehicle Registration Application PDF MV-82 If you register for a business or organization , also bring proof of incorporation. For quicker service , make a reservation online before visiting offices in New York City, Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Onondaga, Monroe or Albany Counties. For all other counties , see our office locations and hours. 
Step 3: Get these documents from the DMV 
We will give or mail within 1 - 2 weeks these documents when you register 1 or 2 vehicle plates unless you transfer a registration from another vehicle registered in New York registration window sticker registration document 10-day inspection extension sticker if you did not get the vehicle from a New York State auto dealer 7 If applicable , we will also send you a new title certificate 90 days. 
Step 4: Get your vehicle inspected 
All vehicles registered in New York State must get a safety inspection at a DMV - licensed inspection station every 12 months when the of the vehicle is transferred Learn more about inspection requirements. 
Fees 
The fees depend on the vehicle weight and where you live. First - time registration fees normally include the sales tax a vehicle plate fee or registration transfer fee a title certificate fee in most counties a vehicle use tax either a 1 or 2 year registration fee , depending on the type of registration You can estimate the registration fees you will need to pay. 
Payment types 
We accept cash most credit, pinless debit or prepaid cards American Express, Discover Card / Novus, MasterCard, VISA a personal check or a money order payable to You can split your payment between cash and check if you need. 
Additional information 

More help 
See Instructions Vehicle Registration / Titling Application PDF MV-82.1. For specific information about registering various types of vehicles , refer to the webpages listed on this page. 
You do not need to be United States resident to register a vehicle in New York 
As long as you meet the registration requirements , you can register a vehicle here. 
About Vehicle Identification Numbers (VINS) on vehicles or motorcycles 
In an effort to protect consumers , the DMV would like to inform you about New York State laws pertaining to vehicle identification numbers also called VINs. 
California emissions standards 
Most vehicles mustcomply with California emission standards. 
Sharing registration information 
Read more about sharing your information. 
Didn't find what you were looking for? 
Find other information about vehicle registrations. Your insurance company will: 1) give you 2 barcoded original NY State Insurance ID cards (see a sample) or provide you with access to your digital electronic NY State Insurance ID Card 2) send an electronic notice of insurance coverage to the DMV (your insurance agent or broker cannot file this notice) Your NY State Insurance ID cards and the electronic notice together verify your coverage. We need both. You must register your vehicle within 180 days of the effective date on your Insurance ID Card. Bring one copy or form of your Insurance ID Card with you. The DMV office will keep the paper card. Keep the other paper card with the vehicle as your proof of insurance. Anyone operating your vehicle must be able to provide proof of insurance. Learn more about NY State Insurance Requirements. Cars , trucks , trailers & motorcycles Model year1973 or newer , either NY State Certificate of Title original or certified copy, not a photocopy with the transfer ownership section completed by the seller , or acceptable proof of ownership from another state original or certified copy, not a photocopy Model year 1972 or older , either a NY State Transferable Registration original or certified copy, not a photocopy and bill of sale , or acceptable proof of ownership from another state original or certified copy, not a photocopy See acceptable proofs for other vehicles manufactured homes, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles, gifted vehicles, vehicles with deceased owners. Your insurance company will: 1) give you 2 barcoded original NY State Insurance ID cards (see a sample) or provide you with access to your digital electronic NY State Insurance ID Card 2) send an electronic notice of insurance coverage to the DMV (your insurance agent or broker cannot file this notice) Your NY State Insurance ID cards and the electronic notice together verify your coverage. We need both. You must register your vehicle within 180 days of the effective date on your Insurance ID Card. Bring one copy or form of your Insurance ID Card with you. The DMV office will keep the paper card. Keep the other paper card with the vehicle as your proof of insurance. Anyone operating your vehicle must be able to provide proof of insurance. Learn more about NY State Insurance Requirements. Bill of sale You can use the Vehicle Bill of Sale PDF MV-912 form, or create one that includes the vehicle year and make vehicle ID number VIN or hull ID HIN date of the sale purchase price names and signatures of buyer and seller Make copies for your records. Give the original bill to DMV. A bill of sale is not an acceptable without other proofs of ownership. You need a bill of sale even if got the vehicle as a gift. Sales tax payment If you bought your vehicle from another person in a private sale , both you the buyer and the seller must complete the at NY State Department of Tax and Finance DTF-802. The DMV calculates the tax and issues a payment receipt. If you werenot a resident of New York when you purchased the vehicle , use Claim for Sales and Use Tax Exemption Title / Registration Motor Vehicle, Trailer, All - Terrain Vehicle ATV, Vessel Boat, or Snowmobile {Sales Tax Form} PDF at NY State Department of Tax & Finance DTF-803 to receive a non - resident exemption from NY State sales tax. The DTF-803 defines " non - resident " and " resident ". You must provide proof of identity and date of birth. You must be at least 16 years old except for ATV and boat registrations. You can use a New York State driver license learner permit , or non - driver ID card that is current or expired less than 2 years as proof of identity and age . If you don t have one of these, see other kinds of proof you can use. See Instructions for Vehicle Registration / Title Application PDF MV-82.1. The extension sticker allows you 10 days from the registration date to get the vehicle inspected in New York. Any New York State or out - of - state inspection issued to the previous registrant is not valid after the vehicle is registered to you. You must get the vehicle inspected. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Registration 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Replace license or permit#1
document : 
Replace license or permit[1] 
You can replace your license or permit including commercial and enhanced if it was lost, stolen or destroyed, or after you update your address. You can't replace your document if it is expired. If you are turning 21 soon , order within 40 days of your birthday. 
If you plan on traveling 
We recommend you come to the DMV now to get an Enhanced or REAL ID, and avoid a second office visit later. 2 Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [2]. 
Replace at an office and get an Enhanced or REAL ID 
You don't have to get an Enhanced or REAL ID. 3 However , if you have a Standard , you will not be allowed to board a domestic flight starting in October 2020 unless you have a Passport. Complete this guide to make sure you have the proofs of identification you need before you come to DMV. Find your proofs [3 ] 
Replace online 
WARNING: If you replace your Standard online , your new document will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can replace online. Your document type will stay the same. Replace online [4 ] 
Replace by mail 
WARNING: If you replace your Standard by mail , your new document will show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today. If you already have an Enhanced or REAL ID, or you want to keep your Standard , you can replace by mail. Your document type will stay the same. 
Send 
a completed Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 if you do not know your DMV ID number, enter your date of birth and name as it appeared on your old document photocopies of acceptable proof of identity [6 ] payment of $17.50 check or money order payable to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles " 
To 
NYS Department of Motor Vehicles207 Genesee Street, Suite 6Utica, NY 13501 - 2874 
Fee 
The fee is $17.50. If you apply by mail or at a DMV office , you can pay by credit / debit card or a check or money order made out to Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. To apply online , you must use a credit / debit card. The DMV accepts : American Express Card Discover Card /Novus MasterCard MasterCard Debit card without personal identification number PIN VISA Card Visa Debit Card without personal identification number PIN If you want the fee waived for a license or permit lost due to a crime , you must apply at a DMV office and show form MV-78B completed by the police. 
Address and mailing information 

Updating address 
We send documents to the address we have on our records at the time of the order. If you moved , first change your address [7], then order a replacement. 
Temporary address 
When you order by mail or at a DMV office [8], you can ask that your replacement document be sent to an address that is different from the address on your document. 5 Sorry , you can't use a temporary address when you order online. 
We will mail you your document 
We will mail it to the mailing address currently on our records or an alternate address you provide. 6 To verify or change your address , see Address Change [7]. It takes about 10 days for your license to come in the mail. You can check the mailing status online [9]. If it has been more than 2 weeks since you ordered your duplicate , contact us [10]. 
Additional information 
You do not need an eye exam when you replace your document. Your expiration date and ID number will not change when your replace your document. 
Change my name or make other changes 
To change your name or other non - address information photo, height, add / remove corrective lenses , you will need go to a DMV office. See how to change your name or other information [11]. 
Veteran status designation 
If you are a qualified U.S. military veteran who was honorably discharged, and you have a NY State driver license, learner permit or non - driver photo ID card , you can have the word " Veteran " printed on the upper left hand of your photo document. There is no additional fee for the veteran status designation on your document , but all regular transaction fees will apply. Learn how to get the veteran status on your license [12]. 
Overseas (out of the country, abroad) 
When overseas you must replace your license through the mail. Please submit a completed Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 include payment of $17.50 We also recommend that you send us a pre - addressed priority mail return envelope with your application this will help ensure that we send your license to the correct address. 
Temporary visitors and international students 
As long as the Temporary Visitor status that DMV has on file is not expired you can replace your license online, through the mail or in an office. If your Temporary Visitor status has been extended , you must go to a DMV office with your updated paperwork from the Immigration and Naturalization Service INS. We will update our records to show that your Temporary Visitor status has been extended so you can replace your license. Your new license will have your new temporary visitor expiration date. If you request a replacement driver license 41 days or more before your 21st birthday , it will say UNDER 21. Starting in October 2020 , you will need an Enhanced or REAL ID to board a domestic flight unless you have a passport. If your license or permit was issued before October 30 , 2017 and is not Enhanced , you have a Standard document. Newly issued Standard documents show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. If you want to replace in an office and keep your Standard document type , follow these steps : Step 1: Complete an Application for Permit , Driver License or Non - Driver ID Card PDF [5] MV-44 Step 2 : Come to an office. Bring your current license or permit your application payment Newly issued Standard licenses and permits show :' NOT FOR FEDERAL PURPOSES'. To get a free replacement for a driver license or learner permit that was stolen or was lost due to a crime , you must get form MV-78B from a police agency. This form is available only from police agencies, not from the DMV. If you want your new driver license sent to an alternate address , include an additional note and clearly print the alternate address. Don t write the alternate address on form MV-44. The mailing address you write on form MV-44 must be the address that is listed on your photo document and your DMV record. If you want your new driver license sent to an alternate address , include an additional note and clearly print the alternate address. Don t write the alternate address on form MV-44. The mailing address you write on form MV-44 must be the address that is listed on your photo document and your DMV record. 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
Driver License [13 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : File a Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) request#1
document : 
File a Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) request[1] 

What is FOIL? 
The NY State Freedom of Information Law provides access to state and local government records. See the Committee on Open Government [2] for more information. 
Do I need to use FOIL? 
Many DMV records are available using the Request for DMV Records PDF [3] MV-15. Check the MV-15 form carefully before you submit a FOIL request for DMV records. If you use the MV-15 , you will often receive records sooner than if you submitted a FOIL request. 
What DMV Records may I request under FOIL? 
You may request any DMV records under FOIL. However , certain records or parts of records can be withheld under Section 87 of the NY State Public Officers Law. When you request DMV records under FOIL , DMV will send you a letter within 5 business days after we receive your request. This letter will tell you your request was received .. In most cases , the records will be made available within 20 business days from the date of the acknowledgment letter. In some cases , it may take longer than 20 business days to produce records under FOIL. If the DMV cannot provide your records within 20 business days , we will tell you the date the records will be available. See the DMV Subject Matter List of Records [4]. 
How do I make a FOIL request? 

Step 1: Determine if you need to request under FOIL 
Read the Request for DMV Records PDF [3] MV-15 to determine if the records are available without a request under the FOIL. If the record you are requesting is available by using the MV-15 , doing so may allow you to receive your records more quickly than filing a FOIL request. 
Step 2: Make your request in writing 
If you decide that you are eligible to request the records under FOIL , you must make your FOIL request in writing. To make a request under FOIL do one of the following complete the Freedom of Information Law Request Form PDF [5] MV - FOIL write a letter that describes the records you seek. Make sure you include your mailing address or email address. This will allow the DMV to send the records to you. 
Step 3: Submit your request 
If the records you are requesting include personal information , please also include a photocopy of your driver license or other government issued photo ID card. If you wish , you may black out the picture. You must identify your permissible use for the record you are requesting. Permissible uses are listed on Page 2 of the MV-15FOIL. 
Mail 
Your request , form or letter to Records Access OfficerNew York State Department of Motor VehiclesFOIL Office6 Empire State Plaza, Room 136BAlbany, NY 12228 
Email 
Read and complete the Freedom of Information Law Request Form PDF [5] MV - FOIL. Attach the completed form to your email request. Email your request to [email protected] [6 ] Email with your request to [email protected] [6]. In your message , include your name and mailing address or email address. Attach a copy of your government issued photo ID, if required. 
When will I get a response? 
The FOIL office will respond to your request within 5 business days of receiving the request. We will either provide you with the record requested or acknowledge receipt of your request. We will also provide a time frame for when you can expect to receive the record you requested. 
Is there a fee for records I request under FOIL? 
Yes. The law authorizes us to charge a $10.00 search fee to determine if the records you requested are available. Your payment of the search fee does not guarantee that you will receive the records that you requested. We cannot refund the search fee. We will tell you if the records that you requested are available or not available. If the records are available and you want paper copies , we charge a copy fee of $1.00 for each page. A page is a single sheet of paper, whether one - sided or two - sided. You may pay the fees by credit card, or by a check or money order made payable to Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. The FOIL office will not release the record you have requested until payment has been received in full. When searches are being performed for a public purpose by certain individuals or organizations , they are exempt from paying search fees. The ONLY individuals or organizations this applies to are : government agencies volunteer fire companies volunteer ambulance services public officers , boards , or bodies legal aid bureaus or societies or other private entities when acting pursuant to Section 722 of the New York State County Law 
When and where can I inspect copies of DMV records? 
Records rarely can be produced on the same day that they are requested. Most DMV records are available within twenty 20 business days of the FOIL Office's written acknowledgment of your request. If a phone number was provided with your request , the FOIL office will call you when your records are ready to be inspected. Otherwise you will be notified by mail. When the records you requested are ready to be inspected , you will need to come to the Customer Service CounterRoom 136Swan Street BuildingEmpire State PlazaAlbany , NY 12228 
Can I appeal DMV s response to my FOIL request? 
Yes. If DMV has denied your request for a record in whole or in part , you may appeal the denial. You must do so in writing within thirty 30 days of the date of denial of your FOIL request. Your FOIL appeal must identify the date of your record request and a description of the records that were denied. You should complete the FOIL Appeal Form PDF [7] AA-33FI and mail it to : Department of Motor VehiclesFOIL Appeals OfficerP.O. Box 2935Albany , New York 12220 - 0935 
Do it by mail: 
You can make your FOIL request in writing to the DMV FOIL Office. Use the Freedom of Information Law Request Form MV - FOIL [5] or write a letter. Send the form or letter to Records Access OfficerNew York State Department of Motor VehiclesFOIL Office6 Empire State Plaza, Room 136BAlbany, NY 12228 
Show "do it online" button in megamenu: 

Topic: 
DMV Records [8 ] 
Related PDFs: 

show mydmv button in megamenu: 

Disable this transaction?: 

yes or no survey: 


title : Eligibility for Students with Criminal Convictions | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Students with criminal convictions have limited eligibility for federal student aid. 
Make sure you understand your status, and don t assume you can t get aid. Your eligibility for federal student aid can be affected by incarceration and/or the type of conviction you have. Try This Resource Federal Student Aid Eligibility for Students Confined in Adult Correctional or Juvenile Justice Facilities Provides information for incarcerated individuals on federal student aid eligibility. 
If I m incarcerated, can I get federal student aid? 
You have limited eligibility for federal student aid. Once you re released , most eligibility limitations will be removed. In fact , you may apply for aid before you re released so your aid is processed in time for you to start school. However , if your incarceration was for a drug - related offense or if you are subject to an involuntary civil commitment for a sexual offense , your eligibility may be limited. 
If I m on probation or parole, can I get federal student aid? 
Yes ; if you are on probation or parole or living in a halfway house, you may be eligible for federal student aid. But remember , if you were convicted of a drug - related offense or if you are subject to an involuntary civil commitment for a sexual offense, your eligibility may be limited. 
Is it true that drug convictions might affect my ability to get federal student aid? 
Yes ; your eligibility might be suspended if the offense occurred while you were receiving federal student aid grants, loans, or work - study. When you complete the FAFSA form , you will be asked whether you had a drug conviction for an offense that occurred while you were receiving federal student aid. If the answer is yes , you will be provided a worksheet to help you determine whether your conviction affects your eligibility for federal student aid. If your eligibility for federal student aid has been suspended due to a drug conviction , you can regain eligibility early by successfully completing an approved drug rehabilitation program or by passing two unannounced drug tests administered by an approved drug rehabilitation program. If you regain eligibility during the award year , notify your financial aid office immediately so you can get any aid you re eligible for. If you are convicted of a drug - related offense after you submit the FAFSA form , you might lose eligibility for federal student aid , and you might be liable for returning any financial aid you received during a period of ineligibility. 
What other convictions might affect my aid? 
If you have been convicted of a forcible or nonforcible sexual offense, and you are subject to an involuntary civil commitment upon completion of a period of incarceration for that offense , you cannot receive a Federal Pell Grant. 

title : Understanding Delinquency and Default | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Student Loan Delinquency and Default 
Loans must be repaid. If you ve missed a payment or are having trouble making payments , immediately contact and discuss options with the organization that handles billing and other services for your loan to avoid defaulting on your loan. For the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program or the Federal Family Education Loan Program , contact your loan servicer. For the Federal Perkins Loan Program , contact the school where you received the loan for details. If you know that your Perkins Loan has been assigned to the U.S. Department of Education , contact the ECSI Federal Perkins Loan Servicer. If you don t know who your loan servicer is , call the Federal Student Aid Information Center FSAIC at 1 - 800 - 433 - 3243. LOG IN Automatic Administrative Forbearance and Temporary 0% Interest as a Result of the COVID-19 National Emergency To provide relief to student loan borrowers during the COVID-19 national emergency , federal student loan borrowers are automatically being placed in an administrative forbearance, which allows you to temporarily stop making your monthly loan payments. In addition , interest is being temporarily set at 0% on federal student loans. This 0% interest and suspension of payments will last from March 13 , 2020, through Sept. 30 , 2020 , but you can still make payments if you choose. Have questions? Find out what loans qualify, and get additional information about the 0% interest period, administrative forbearance, and other student loan flexibilities due to the COVID-19 national emergency. 
Understanding Delinquency 
It's important to pay the amount shown on your bill and to pay by the due date. The first day after you miss a student loan payment , your loan becomes past due, or delinquent. Your loan account remains delinquent until you repay the past due amount or make other arrangements, such as deferment or forbearance, or changing repayment plans. If you are delinquent on your student loan payment for 90 days or more , your loan servicer will report the delinquency to the three major national credit bureaus. If you continue to be delinquent , your loan can risk going into default. Don t ignore your student loan payments defaulting on your loan can have serious consequences. Learn more on how to avoid default. Note : Credit bureaus may be called " consumer reporting agencies " on the promissory note you signed before receiving your loan. If you have a poor credit rating , it can be difficult for you to obtain credit cards, home or car loans , or other forms of consumer credit. Note: You may also be charged a higher interest rate than someone with a good credit rating. You also may have trouble signing up for utilities , getting homeowner's insurance, getting a cell phone plan, or getting approval to rent an apartment credit checks usually are required for renters. 
Understanding Default 
If your loan continues to be delinquent , the loan may go into default. The point when a loan is considered to be in default varies depending on the type of loan you received. For a loan made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program or the Federal Family Education Loan Program , you re considered to be in default if you don t make your scheduled student loan payments for at least 270 days. For a loan made under the Federal Perkins Loan Program , the holder of the loan may declare the loan to be in default if you don t make your scheduled payment by the due date. Find out where to go for information about your Perkins Loan. If you defaulted on any of your federal student loans , contact the organization that notified you of the default as soon as possible so you can explain your situation fully and discuss your options. If you make repayment arrangements soon enough after your loan has gone into default , you may be able to resolve the default quickly. Learn more about getting out of default. 
Consequences of Default 
The consequences of defaulting cannot only impact your ability to borrow but can impact your finances as well. Consequences include the following : The entire unpaid balance of your loan and any interest you owe becomes immediately due this is called " acceleration ". You can no longer receive deferment or forbearance , and you lose eligibility for other benefits, such as the ability to choose a repayment plan. You lose eligibility for additional federal student aid. The default is reported to credit bureaus, damaging your credit rating and affecting your ability to buy a car or house or to get a credit card. It may take years to reestablish a good credit record. You may not be able to purchase or sell assets such as real estate. Your tax refunds and federal benefit payments may be withheld and applied toward repayment of your defaulted loan this is called Treasury offset. Your wages may be garnished. This means your employer may be required to withhold a portion of your pay and send it to your loan holder to repay your defaulted loan. Your loan holder can take you to court. You may be charged court costs, collection fees, attorney s fees, and other costs associated with the collection process. Your school may withhold your academic transcript until your defaulted student loan is satisfied. The academic transcript is the property of the school , and it is the school's decision not the U.S. Department of Education s or your loan holder s whether to release the transcript to you. If You Are Delinquent or In Default , Your Loan Servicer Can Help If you're having trouble making payments or are concerned about the status of your federal student loan , you have options available to you. Contact your loan servicer to discuss how to get back on track with payments. There are several affordable repayment options that you may be able to take advantage of to continue making loan payments even when times are tough. 
My Loan Was Mistakenly Put in Default 
If you believe your loan has been placed in default by mistake , here s what you can do to correct the error. 
Defaulted Federal Loan Servicer 
MAXIMUS Federal Services, Inc., is the loan servicer for defaulted federal student loans over 360 days delinquent. 

title : Contracting Information | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Doing Business With Us 
Federal Student Aid Acquisitions plays an integral role supporting Federal Students Aid's needs and program objectives. Federal Student Aid Acquisitions is responsible for ensuring the efficient and economic acquisition of products and services for Federal Student Aid while reducing cost and maintaining compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and Executive Orders. 
Acquisition Forecast 
Federal Student Aid prepares an annual forecast, with periodic updates, of expected contract opportunities in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold for each fiscal year. Information on Federal Student Aid's forecast, as well as other U.S. Department of Education acquisitions, can be found at Forecast of ED Contract Opportunities. All forecasted procurements are subject to revision or cancellation. 
Acquisition Notices and Contract Solicitations 
Active acquisition synopses, contract solicitations, and other information including draft work statements, special notices, sources sought notices, etc ., are available at FedBizOpps, the U.S. Government's single point - of - entry for federal business opportunities. FedBizOpps also contains copies of requests for quotations for proposed contract actions expected to exceed $10,000 but not to exceed $25,000. 
Federal Student Aid IT Standards 
Federal Student Aid relies heavily on information technology IT to support complex business processes. Therefore , effective use of IT is essential to many Federal Student Aid acquisitions. The IT Standards Library identifies federal, Department and Federal Student Aid specific IT standards directly pertinent to Federal Student Aid's acquisitions. 
Contact 
If you have questions regarding Federal Student Aid's Acquisition activities , please e - mail FSA Acquisitions. 

title : Student Aid Report | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
After you submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form, you ll get a Student Aid Report that summarizes the information you provided on your application. 
Review your Student Aid Report carefully to make sure it s correct and complete. Your Student Aid Report SAR is a paper or electronic document that gives you some basic information about your eligibility for federal student aid as well as listing your answers to the FAFSAquestions. 
How and when will I get my SAR? 
Whether you receive your SAR online or on paper depends on whether you provide an email address on your FAFSA form. If you provide a valid email address , you ll receive an email from noreply@FAFSA.gov with instructions on how to access an online copy of your SAR. If you don't provide a valid email address on your FAFSA form , you will receive either a SAR or a SAR Acknowledgement via postal mail. The SAR lists your FAFSA information and provides space for you to make corrections. You will receive a paper SAR if you file a paper FAFSA form and don t provide an email address. The SAR Acknowledgement lists your FAFSA information, but you ll need to make any corrections at fafsa.gov. You ll receive a SAR Acknowledgement if you file an electronic FAFSA form and don t provide an email address. If you have an FSA ID username and password and your FAFSA information has been processed , you can log in at fafsa.gov to view SAR information regardless of whether you filled out the FAFSA form online, on the myStudentAid app, or on a FAFSA PDF or whether you provided an email address or not. you list on your FAFSA form The school will have access to your SAR data electronically within a day after it is processed. Here s a summary of what you ll receive, and how soon after filing your FAFSA form, based on what type of FAFSA form you file. * The time frames in this table indicate how long it takes for the SAR to arrive after the FAFSA form is submitted. View accessible version of table 
What information does a SAR contain? 
If your application is complete , an Expected Family Contribution EFC will display in the upper right - hand corner of your SAR. If your application is incomplete, your SAR will not include an EFC , but it will tell you what you need to do to resolve any issues. The SAR also contains a four - digit Data Release Number DRN, which appears on the first page in the upper right corner of the paper SAR and SAR Acknowledgement. On the electronic SAR , the DRN is located in the box that contains the Application Receipt date, below the EFC. You will need the DRN if you choose to allow your college or career school to change certain information on your FAFSA form. Your SAR might also contain a note indicating that you ve been selected for verification. Find out what to do if you ve been selected for verification. 
What am I supposed to do with my SAR? 
When you get your SAR , review it carefully to make sure it s correct and complete. The school you listed on your FAFSA form will use your information to determine your eligibility for federal and possibly nonfederal financial aid. A school may ask you to verify the accuracy of your FAFSA data , so you need to be sure the information is correct. If you don t have any changes to make to the information listed on your SAR , just keep it for your records. 
What if I find a mistake on my SAR? 
If you review your SAR and find a mistake , you will need to correct or update your FAFSA form. 
How do I get a copy of my SAR? 
Once your FAFSA form or FAFSA correction has been processed , you can get a copy of your SAR by logging in to fafsa.gov using your FSA ID and selecting the View or Print your Student Aid Report SAR " option near the middle of the My FAFSA " page ; or contacting the Federal Student Aid Information Center at 1 - 800 - 4-FED - AID 1 - 800 - 433 - 3243; TTY for the deaf or hard of hearing 1 - 800 - 730 - 8913 and requesting a copy be sent to you via U.S. mail allow 10 14 days for delivery. 

title : Comparing School Aid Offers | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
A school aid offer (sometimes called an award letter) tells you what financial aid you can receive at a particular college or career school. 
If you ve applied to several schools , be sure to compare aid offers to see which school will be the most affordable. If you listed a school on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid FAFSA You might get a tentative aid offer from a school and then find that it changes later. This could happen for a variety of reasons, such as if you indicated that you plan to live on campus when you submitted your FAFSA form but then later decided to live off campus or if you are selected for verification. Because your financial aid package is created for you and is based on the cost of attending a particular school , your aid amounts will vary from school to school. 
Figuring Out Net Price 
Follow these easy steps to figure out your net price, or net cost, for each school, and find out which school will be most affordable for you. First , find the cost of attendance for your program on the aid offer. If the school doesn t list the cost of attendance on the aid offer , ask the financial aid office for this figure. Make sure it includes amounts you will pay to the school directly such as tuition and fees as well as other costs such as living expenses, books and supplies, and transportation. Next , subtract the grant and scholarship amounts on your aid offer from the cost of attendance amount. Also subtract any savings you have available to put toward your school costs for the school year. The remaining amount is your net or out - of - pocket cost. Compare the net costs for the schools you are considering. The net cost is the amount you will have to pay out of your pocket, using earnings from work or loan funds that you borrow. If you have any questions or don t understand what s in your aid offer , contact the financial aid office at the school. They re there to help! For instance , it s important to understand what you re being offered e.g., which items in the offer are grants and which are loans. You also need to think about which aid to accept. Also , because your aid offer might include student loans , it s important for you to compare the amount of debt you would be taking on at the schools you are considering. If you find that you ll need to take out a larger amount in private loans at one school than at another , you should pay special attention to the terms and conditions of the private loans so you understand what your obligations would be. Read about federal versus private loans. 

title : PLUS Loan Application | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan ProgramFederal Direct PLUS Loan Request for Supplemental Information 
This is a request for supplemental information in connection with your application for a Federal Direct PLUS Loan Direct PLUS Loan through the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program. Some schools may have a different process for obtaining the additional information needed to process your Direct PLUS Loan application. The information that you provide will be sent to the school that you select. The school you select will use the information collected to determine your eligibility for a Direct PLUS Loan and process your application. Before you can receive a Direct PLUS Loan , you must complete a Direct PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note Direct PLUS Loan MPN, which explains all of the terms and conditions of Direct PLUS Loans and constitutes your legally binding agreement to repay all Direct PLUS Loans that you receive under the Direct PLUS Loan MPN. You will have an opportunity to complete the Direct PLUS Loan MPN after you complete the Direct PLUS Loan Request. The Direct PLUS Loan Request allows you to authorize the school to use your loan funds to satisfy other educationally related charges after tuition and fees, and room and board have been paid. You are not required to provide this authorization. If you are a parent borrower , the Direct PLUS Loan Request also allows you to : Designate whether the school pays any credit balance to the student or to you. Request a deferment while the student is in school. Request an additional deferment for 6 months after the student ceases to be enrolled at least half time. BEFORE YOU CONTINUE: If you have placed a security freeze on your credit file , you must lift or remove the freeze at each credit bureau before you continue. Your application will not be processed if you have a security freeze. 
Select the type of Direct PLUS Loan Application you would like to complete 

Direct PLUS Loan Application for Graduate/Professional StudentsWilliam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan ProgramFederal Direct PLUS Loan Request for Supplemental Information 
Students must be logged in using their own. Learn More LOG IN TO START 
Direct PLUS Loan Application for ParentsWilliam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan ProgramFederal Direct PLUS Loan Request for Supplemental Information 
Parents must be logged in using their own. Learn More LOG IN TO START Some schools may have a different process for obtaining the additional information needed to process your Direct PLUS Loan application. You may verify that your school participates in this process after you select a borrower type below or by contacting the school's financial aid office. Your school will tell you what loans, if any, you are eligible to receive. If you have questions regarding your loan eligibility, the next steps in the processing of your loan, when the loan will be disbursed paid out, or no longer wish to receive the loan , contact your school's financial aid office. 

title : PLUS Loan Application for Graduate Students | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Direct PLUS Loan Application for Graduate/Professional StudentsWilliam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan ProgramFederal Direct PLUS Loan Request for Supplemental Information 

What is a Direct PLUS Loan Application for Graduate/Professional Students? 
This is a request for supplemental information in connection with your application for a Federal Direct PLUS Loan Direct PLUS Loan through the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program. Some schools may have a different process for obtaining the additional information needed to process your Direct PLUS Loan application. The information that you provide will be sent to the school that you select. The school you select will use the information collected to determine your eligibility for a Direct PLUS Loan and process your application. Before you can receive a Direct PLUS Loan , you must complete a Direct PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note Direct PLUS Loan MPN, which explains all of the terms and conditions of Direct PLUS Loans and constitutes your legally binding agreement to repay all Direct PLUS Loans that you receive under the Direct PLUS Loan MPN. You will have an opportunity to complete the Direct PLUS Loan MPN after you complete the Direct PLUS Loan Request. The Direct PLUS Loan Application allows you to authorize the school to use your loan funds to satisfy other educationally related charges after tuition and fees, and room and board have been paid. You are not required to provide this authorization. BEFORE YOU CONTINUE: If you have placed a security freeze on your credit file , you must lift or remove the freeze at each credit bureau before you continue. Your application will not be processed if you have a security freeze. 
Apply for a PLUS Loan 
LOG IN TO START Start Demo 

title : Avoiding Default | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
There are steps you can take to repay your federal student loan successfully and avoid going into default. 
Understanding your loan agreement , staying on top of your loan information , and making sure to contact your loan servicer if you are having trouble making payments can help you avoid default. If you don t make a payment on time or if you miss making a payment , your loan is delinquent and late fees may be assessed. Even if you are delinquent on your loan, you may still be able to avoid default , so it s important that you contact your loan servicer immediately. 
Take Steps to Avoid Default 
Avoid default. Take the time to fully understand your loan agreement and the types of loans you are receiving. It s also important that you not borrow more than you need or more than you expect to be able to repay. Develop a sound and realistic financial plan. If your federal student loan is delinquent , check out the Student Loan Debt Collection Assistant, which the U.S. Department of Education developed in partnership with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The tool provides information about how to access the full range of special repayment options available to you. 
Understand Your Loan and Loan Agreement 
Understand the type of aid you are receiving. Loans, unlike most grants, scholarships, or work - study funds, must be repaid. Know the type of loan you are receiving. Understand the costs of getting the loan, the interest rate, and the repayment terms for the loan. Read Know Before You Owe from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Read your promissory note. It is a legal document. Signing a promissory note means you agree to repay the loan according to the terms of the note. You must repay all the loans you receive, even if you don t complete your education. 
Manage Your Borrowing 
Borrow only what you need to pay for your college expenses. Create a budget to determine how much you really need to borrow. Contact your school s financial aid office to request a lower loan amount instead of borrowing the maximum amount you might be eligible to receive. Complete Financial Awareness Counseling. 
Track Your Loans Online 
Find information about all of your federal student loans from the U.S. Department of Education by logging in to " My Federal Student Aid . " 
Keep Good Records 
Keep the following important documents in an organized file : Financial aid offers Loan counseling materials entrance counseling and exit counseling Your promissory note(s) Amount of all student loans you borrow Account number for each student loan you receive Loan servicer contact information Loan disclosure(s) Payment schedules Record of your monthly payments Notes about any questions you ask about your student loan, the answers, and the name of the person to whom you spoke Deferment or forbearance paperwork and notes of any phone calls to the loan servicer that you paid your loan in full Documentation 
Notify Your Loan Servicer 
Tell your loan servicer when you need help making your monthly payments ; graduate; withdraw from school; drop below half - time enrollment status at school ; change your name, address, or Social Security number ; transfer to another school ; or experience a change in your life that might impact your loan payments. 
What if I can t make my monthly payment? 
If you are having trouble making your monthly payments , contact your loan servicer immediately. Your loan servicer can help you understand your options. You may be able to switch repayment plans to get a lower monthly payment , consider an income - driven repayment plan , change your payment due date , or get a deferment or forbearance. NEVER ignore delinquency or default notices from your loan servicer. 
Consider Simplifying Repayment with Consolidation 
You might wish to combine your multiple federal student loans into a single Direct Consolidation Loan to simplify repayment. There may be tradeoffs, so understand the advantages and possible disadvantages of consolidation before you apply. 

title : Complete Federal Student Loan Counseling | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Choose Loan Counseling Type 

Counseling Type 

Entrance Counseling 
Entrance Counseling is required before you can receive your first Direct Subsidized Loan, or Direct Unsubsidized Loan as an undergraduate, or your first Direct PLUS Loan as a graduate / professional student. LOG IN TO START 
Financial Awareness Counseling 
Financial Awareness Counseling provides tools and information to help you understand your financial aid and help you manage your finances. Complete this counseling any time. LOG IN TO START 
PLUS Credit Counseling 
PLUS Credit Counseling is required if the U.S. Department of Education has informed you that you have an adverse credit history and you have obtained an endorser or documented to the satisfaction of the U.S. Department of Education that there are extenuating circumstances related to your adverse credit history . PLUS Credit Counseling can be completed voluntarily at any time. If PLUS Credit Counseling is completed voluntarily and you are determined to have an adverse credit history by the U.S. Department of Education within 30 days of PLUS Credit Counseling completion , your PLUS Credit Counseling requirement will be considered to be fulfilled. LOG IN TO START 
Exit Counseling 
Exit Counseling is required when you graduate, leave school, or drop below half - time enrollment. Exit counseling provides important information to prepare you to repay your federal student loan. At the end , you'll need to provide the name, address, e - mail address, and telephone number for your closest living relative, two references who live in the U.S., and current or expected employer if known. LOG IN TO START 
Were you looking for TEACH Grant Counseling? 
Complete TEACH Grant Initial and Subsequent Counseling. Complete a TEACH Grant Agreement to Serve. Complete TEACH Grant Exit Counseling. 

title : How Financial Aid Works | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
How Financial Aid Works 
For most students planning to attend college or career school , financial aid is essential. We ll walk you through how financial aid works, resources to pay for college, and loan repayment options. 
01 

02 

03 

04 

05 

01 

Start Planning Early 
Plan how to pay for college before you start. Ask school counselors and the college financial aid office about state, college, and nonprofit grants and scholarships you can apply for. Be sure to meet application deadlines. Start saving before you get to college. Consider prepaid tuition and education savings 529 plans. 
02 

Fill Out the FAFSA Form 
Before each year of college , apply for federal grants, work - study, and loans with the Free Application for Federal Student Aid FAFSA form. Your college uses your FAFSA data to determine your federal aid eligibility. Many states and colleges use FAFSA data to award their own aid. After submission , you ll receive your Student Aid Report. 
03 

Review Your Aid Offer 
Your aid offer explains the types and amounts of aid a college is offering you, and your expected costs for the year. If you ve been accepted to multiple colleges , compare the costs and aid offers. Accept the aid from the school that's best for you and inform them of other sources of aid such as scholarships you expect to receive. 
04 

Get Your Aid 
Time to go to school! Your financial aid office will apply your aid to the amount you owe your school and send you the remaining balance to spend on other college costs. One of the requirements to maintain financial aid eligibility is that you must make satisfactory academic progress. And don t forget to complete a FAFSA form each year! 
05 

Graduate and Start Repayment 
As you prepare to graduate , get ready to repay your student loans. Good news! Federal student loan borrowers have a six - month grace period before you begin making payments. Use this time to get organized and choose a repayment plan. If you start falling behind on your payments , contact your loan servicer to discuss repayment options. 

title : Finding and Applying for Scholarships | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Find and apply for as many scholarships as you can it s free money for college or career school! 
Start researching early, and meet deadlines , and you may be on your way to scholarship success. Scholarships are gifts. They don't need to be repaid. There are thousands of them, offered by schools, employers, individuals, private companies, nonprofits, communities, religious groups, and professional and social organizations. 
What kinds of scholarships are available? 
Some scholarships for college are merit - based. You earn them by meeting or exceeding certain standards set by the scholarship - giver. Merit scholarships might be awarded based on academic achievement or on a combination of academics and a special talent, trait, or interest. Other scholarships are based on financial need. Many scholarships are geared toward particular groups of people ; for instance, there are scholarships for women or graduate students. And some are available because of where you or your parent work, or because you come from a certain background for instance, there are scholarships for military families. A scholarship might cover the entire cost of your tuition , or it might be a one - time award of a few hundred dollars. Either way , it s worth applying for, because it ll help reduce the cost of your education. 
How do I find scholarships? 
You can learn about scholarships in several ways, including contacting the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend and checking information in a public library or online. But be careful. Make sure scholarship information and offers you receive are legitimate; and remember that you don't have to pay to find scholarships or other financial aid. Check out our information on how to avoid scams. Try these free sources of information about scholarships : the financial aid office at a college or career school a high school or TRIO counselor the U.S. Department of Labor s FREE scholarship search tool your state grant agency your library s reference section foundations , religious or community organizations , local businesses , or civic groups organizations including professional associations related to your field of interest ethnicity-based organizations your employer or your parents employers 
When do I apply for scholarships? 
That depends on each scholarship s deadline. Some deadlines are as early as a year before college starts , so if you re in high school now, you should be researching and applying for scholarships during the summer between your junior and senior years. But if you ve missed that window , don t give up! Look at scholarship information to see which ones you can still apply for now. 
How do I apply for scholarships? 
Each scholarship has its own requirements. The scholarship s website should give you an idea of who qualifies for the scholarship and how to apply. Make sure you read the application carefully, fill it out completely, and meet the application deadline. 
How do I get my scholarship money? 
That depends on the scholarship. The money might go directly to your college, where it will be applied to any tuition, fees, or other amounts you owe, and then any leftover funds given to you. Or it might be sent directly to you in a check. The scholarship provider should tell you what to expect when it informs you that you ve been awarded the scholarship. If not , make sure to ask. 
How does a scholarship affect my other student aid? 
A scholarship will affect your other student aid because all your student aid added together can t be more than your cost of attendance at your college or career school. So , you ll need to let your school know if you ve been awarded a scholarship so that the financial aid office can subtract that amount from your cost of attendance and from certain other aid, such as loans, that you might have been offered. Then , any amount left can be covered by other financial aid for which you re eligible. Questions? Ask your financial aid office. 

title : Co-sign Your Spouse's Income-Driven Repayment Plan Application | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
What is a Co-Signer? 
A co - signer is the spouse of an applicant who initiated an Income - Driven Repayment Plan Request. As a co - signer you are not obligated to repay this loan by signing a borrower's IDR application. The IDR applicant should have provided you with a Reference Number / Co - sign Code. If you do not have the Reference Number / Co - sign Code , contact the IDR applicant. An e - mail containing the Reference Number / Co - sign Code was sent to him or her. The IDR applicant can also access the Reference Number / Co - sign Code by logging in to StudentAid.gov and clicking on the appropriate link. Directions to access the Reference Number / Co - sign Code If the applicant completed an Income - Driven Repayment Plan Request that was not part of a Direct Consolidation Loan Application , he or she will click on " Income - Driven Repayment Plan Requests " under " My Loan Documents " to locate and provide you with the Reference Number you need. If the applicant completed an Income - Driven Repayment Plan Request as part of a Direct Consolidation Loan Application , he or she will click on " Direct Consolidation Loan Applications " under " My Loan Documents " to locate and provide you with the Co - sign Code you need. Co - sign Income - Driven Repayment IDR Plan Request LOG IN TO START 
Who should complete this? 
Spouse of an applicant who initiated an Income - Driven Repayment Plan Request. 
How long will it take? 
The entire Co - Sign process must be completed in a single session. Most people complete the Co - Sign process in 10 minutes. 
What do I need? 
You must be logged in with your own unique FSA ID in order to Co - Sign the applicant's IDR Request. Verified FSA ID Reference Number/Co-Sign Code The IDR applicant's SSN Financial Information Note: only if you file income taxes separately from your spouse 

title : Lower or Suspend Student Loan Payments | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
I Need to Lower or Suspend My Student Loan Payments 
We ll help you stay on the path to successful repayment of your federal student loan. Whether you are just beginning to repay your student loan s or have been in repayment for a while , sometimes you might have trouble affording your payment amount. Fortunately , there are solutions. 
Automatic Suspension of Monthly Payments as a Result of the COVID-19 National Emergency 
To provide relief to student loan borrowers during the COVID-19 national emergency , federal student loan borrowers are automatically being placed in an administrative forbearance, which allows you to temporarily stop making your monthly loan payments. This suspension of payments will last from March 13 , 2020, through Sept. 30 , 2020 , but you can still make payments if you choose. Have questions? Find out what loans qualify and get additional information about this forbearance and other student loan flexibilities due to the COVID-19 national emergency. 
Apply for an Income-Driven Repayment Plan 
An income - driven repayment IDR plan can make your payments more affordable because they are based on your income. Under an IDR plan , payments may be as low as $0 per month. You can estimate your monthly payments using Loan Simulator. After you apply , your federal loan servicer will notify you regarding your eligibility and, if you qualify, the payment amount. Apply for an IDR Plan 
Recertify or Change Your Income-Driven Repayment Plan 

Recertify Your Income-Driven Repayment Plan 
Enrollment in an income - driven repayment plan is good for one year. Before the year is over , you need to recertify your income and family size to stay on the plan. Your federal loan servicer will notify you when it is time to recertify. If you can t afford your current income - driven payments because you ve had a drop in income , you can recertify early to have your new income taken into account right away. It s important to recertify every year! If you don t recertify on time , you ll be removed from the income - driven repayment plan and your monthly amount due will very likely increase. 
Change Your Income-Driven Repayment Plan 
If you ve had an increase in family size or a decrease in income , you can apply to have your current IDR plan recalculated. You don t have to wait until your annual recertification is due. The same is true if you want to switch from one IDR plan to another. A different repayment plan may offer different benefits depending on your situation. You can apply to switch at any time you don t have to wait until your annual recertification is due. Recertify or Change Your IDR Plan 
Get Temporary Relief 
A deferment or forbearance allows you to temporarily stop making your federal student loan payments or temporarily reduce your monthly payment amount. This may help you avoid default. Note: Interest still accrues during deferment or forbearance. It s important you understand whether you would be responsible for paying the accrued interest during this period and how that would impact your federal student loan. Deferment and forbearance also impact potential loan forgiveness options. Learn More About Deferment and Forbearance 

title : MPN for Graduate Students | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Master Promissory Note (MPN) for Graduate/Professional Students 
The MPN is a legal document in which you promise to repay your loan and any accrued interest and fees to the U.S. Department of Education. It also explains the terms and conditions of your loan .Graduate / professional students may be eligible for both Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Direct PLUS Loans, which have different MPNs. You may receive more than one loan under an MPN over a period of up to 10 years to pay for your educational costs, as long as the school is authorized to use the MPN in this way and chooses to do so. Your school will tell you which loans, if any, you are eligible to receive. 
MPN for Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans 
Use this MPN for Direct Unsubsidized Loans available to eligible graduate / professional students. You may also need to complete an MPN for Direct PLUS Loans. Download PDF Preview Read Only LOG IN TO START View Demo 
MPN for Direct PLUS Loans 
Use this MPN for Direct PLUS Loans available to eligible graduate / professional students. You may also need to complete an MPN for Direct Unsubsidized Loans. Download PDF Preview Read Only LOG IN TO START View Demo 
Who should complete this? 

30 Minutes 

How long will it take? 

What do I need? 
Verified username and password FSA ID School Name Permanent/Mailing Address Contact Information Employer Information Reference Information Return to the MPN Selection Page Close Yes Close Yes 

title : Third-party Servicer Program Reviews | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Third-party Servicer Program Reviews 
The Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended HEA, allows institutions of higher education to outsource any aspect of the institution s participation in federal student aid programs, including, but not limited to, services and functions necessary for the institution to remain eligible to participate in the federal student aid programs , to determine a student s eligibility for federal student aid , to account for federal student aid funds , to deliver federal student aid to students , or to perform any other aspect of the administration of the federal student aid programs. A third - party servicer may be an individual, a state, or a private, profit or non - profit organization that enters into a contract with an eligible institution to administer, through manual or automated processing, any aspect of the institution s participation in any federal student aid programs. When contracting with an institution , a third - party servicer and/or its contractors must comply with the various Title IV requirements applicable to its servicing agreement with the school. A third - party servicer is jointly and severally liable with the institution for any violation of Title IV requirements resulting from the functions performed by the third - party servicer. The Title IV regulations authorize the U.S. Department of Education ED to provide oversight of third - party servicers. As part of its oversight duties , Federal Student Aid FSA routinely conducts program reviews to confirm that third - party servicers and the schools that they contract with meet FSA requirements for institutional eligibility, financial responsibility, and administrative capability. During program reviews , reviewers evaluate the third - party servicers and schools compliance with FSA requirements, assess liabilities for errors in performance, and identify actions the third - party servicers and their partner schools must take to improve future administrative capabilities. After completing a program review , FSA issues a Final Program Review Determination FPRD, which is a report that includes each specific finding, the third party servicer s response, and ED s final determination. The FPRD also identifies liabilities, if any, calculated based on the findings of the program review ; provides instructions for the payment of liabilities, as appropriate ; notifies the third - party servicer of its right to appeal the existence and amount of any liabilities identified, as appropriate ; and closes the program review, if appropriate. The FPRD may or may not require additional action by the third - party servicer. Future FPRDs will be posted regularly. Below are the FPRDs issued to third - party servicers by ED : Commerce Bank : issued February 2016 US Bank : issued May 2017 Wells Fargo : issued June 2017 Nelnet Business Solutions, Incorporated : issued September 2017 Student Aid Administrators : issued August 2018 Educational Management Services, Incorporated : issued August 2018 Alliance Aid for Student Aid Processing : issued September 2018 Higher One / Customers Bank : issued September 2018 

title : Collections | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
If you default on your federal student loan, the loan may be placed with a collection agency, which will then contact you to obtain payment. 
If you default on your federal student loan , the entire balance of the loan principal and interest becomes immediately due. This is called acceleration. Once your loan is accelerated , you no longer have access to deferment or forbearance options or to a choice of repayment plans. In addition , if you do not make repayment arrangements with the holder of your loan the U.S. Department of Education ED, a guaranty agency, or the school that made the loan and comply with the terms of the repayment arrangement , your loan holder may place your loan with a collection agency. If your loan is placed with a collection agency , you will be responsible for costs incurred by your loan holder to get payment. These costs amount to 17.92% of your loan amount if your loan is held by ED. Other loan holders may charge a different amount. You should check with them to find out what it is. The 17.92% is payable in addition to your outstanding principal balance, interest, and fees. For example , if you owe ED $10,000 , you ll owe an additional $1,792 in collection fees once your loan goes to a collection agency, for a total of $11,792 : 17.92% = 0.1792 $10,000 x 0.1792= $1,792 $10,000 + $1,792 = $11,792 The holder of your loan can take other actions to collect as well. ED currently contracts with several collection agencies to administer many of the collection activities of our accounts. Many guaranty agencies also contract with collection agencies for the same reason. Collection agency employees are trained to comply with the terms of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, which govern collection practices by debt collectors. If your defaulted loan is placed with a private collection agency , you can expect the agency to first offer you the option of entering into a voluntary repayment agreement. If you do not agree to enter into a voluntary repayment agreement, or if you enter into a repayment agreement but don t continue making the payments you agreed to make , the collection agency will then begin the process of garnishing your wages Learn about wage garnishment. If they are unable to garnish your wages for example, because you are self - employed , they may recommend that ED refer your case to the U.S. Department of Justice for legal action. The Department of Justice may then sue you to collect on your defaulted loan. There are certain things that private collection agencies are prohibited from doing in connection with their efforts to collect on a defaulted loan. Prohibited actions include , but are not limited to , harassing or abusing any person in connection with the collection of a debt ; making false, deceptive, or misleading claims in connection with the collection of a debt; and using unfair or unreasonable means to collect or attempt to collect any debt. If you believe that a private collection agency has engaged in prohibited practices , you can file a formal complaint. If your federal student loan is in default , find out what options you have for getting out of default. 
How do I know if the information on this page applies to me? 
The information on this page mostly applies to borrowers who have defaulted loans that are held by ED. There are three federal student loan programs administered by ED : the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program the Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program the Federal Perkins Loan Program All defaulted Direct Loans are held by ED. Defaulted FFEL Program loans may be held by ED or by a guaranty agency. Defaulted Federal Perkins Loans may be held by a school or by ED. ED s Default Resolution Group, at Federal Student Aid, oversees the collections process for all defaulted loans that are held by ED. Find out how to contact ED s Default Resolution Group. If you don t know who your loan holder is , you can find out by logging in to My Federal Student Aid. 
How will my outstanding debt be collected? 
If you fail to make and comply with other arrangements to repay the debt, which could include entering into a loan rehabilitation agreement , ED can use a variety of methods to collect your defaulted federal student loan. Find out more about getting out of default. The government can collect your debt by withholding money from the following sources of income : your income tax refund and other federal payments your wages 
Withholding Money From Your Tax Refund or Other Federal Payments (Treasury Offset) 
Federal law related to the collection of debts owed to the government requires ED to request that the U.S. Department of the Treasury withhold money from your federal income tax refunds, Social Security payments including Social Security disability benefits, and other federal payments to be applied toward repayment of your defaulted federal student loan. This withholding is called Treasury offset. If you have a defaulted FFEL Program loan that is held by a guaranty agency , your state tax refunds may also be withheld and applied toward repayment of your loan. You may also lose your driver's license or other state - issued licenses. Before the offset begins , a notice of intent to offset will be sent to your last - known address to inform you that the offset is scheduled to begin in 65 days. The notice may only be sent once , and offsets will continue until your debt is paid or the default status is resolved. You do have the right to request a review of your account to prevent the offset from occurring. If you are successful , then your tax refund and other federal payments will not be offset , or the amount being offset may be reduced. If you are unsuccessful , then your tax refund and other federal payments will be offset. If your Social Security disability benefits are being withheld , the withholding of those benefits will be suspended if the Social Security Administration SSA makes a determination that you are totally disabled, with medical improvement not expected. However , if the SSA later converts your disability benefits to retirement benefits , the withholding of your Social Security benefits may resume without notice. For more detailed information about Treasury offset or the review process including how to request a review , contact your loan holder. If you don t know who your loan holder is , you can find out by logging in to My Federal Student Aid. 
Withholding Money From Your Wages 
Your loan holder can order your employer to withhold up to 15 percent of your disposable pay to collect your defaulted debt without taking you to court. This withholding garnishment continues until your defaulted loan is paid in full or removed from default. With garnishment , you have the right to be sent a notice that explains ED s intention to garnish your wages in 30 days, the nature and amount of your debt, your opportunity to inspect and copy records relating to your debt, your right to object to garnishment, and your option to avoid garnishment by voluntary repayment ; be given an opportunity to enter into a written agreement under terms agreeable to ED to establish a voluntary repayment agreement ; be given an opportunity for a hearing to present and obtain a ruling on any objection you have to the existence, amount, or enforceability of the debt ; any objection that garnishment of 15 percent of your disposable pay would produce an extreme financial hardship ; or any objection stating that garnishment cannot be used at this time because you ve been employed for less than 12 months after having previously been involuntarily separated from employment ; have the garnishment action withheld by filing a timely request for a hearing, until the hearing is completed and a decision issued ; not be discharged from employment, refused employment, or subjected to disciplinary action due to the garnishment, and to seek redress in federal or state court if such action occurs ; initiate any legal action against your employer if the employer discharges, refuses to hire, or takes disciplinary action against you based on the garnishment action ; and not have any information provided to your employer regarding the garnishment other than what is necessary for the employer to comply with the withholding order. One way to avoid garnishment of 15 percent of your disposable pay is to negotiate repayment terms acceptable to ED or the private collection agency and ensure that ED receives the first payment no later than 30 days from the date the garnishment notice was sent. Your other option to avoid garnishment is to make a request for a hearing. You should make a hearing request in writing, postmarked no later than 30 days from the date the garnishment notice was sent ; make a request for a hearing , even if you are requesting copies of documents , because requesting documents doesn t delay a garnishment order ; provide proof to support any objection made to the existence, amount, or enforceability of the debt, or financial hardship; and pay any expenses you incur to obtain legal representation and to attend an in - person hearing. (All in-person hearings are held at one of the three regional offices: Atlanta, Chicago, or San Francisco. You are responsible for the cost of attending and the cost of any witnesses that attend on your behalf.) Your loan holder will arrange the hearing. The hearing may be held in person or on the phone or may be based simply on records you submit to make your case. A decision about whether your wages will be garnished will usually be made within approximately 60 days from the day that your hearing request is received. If you are successful in your hearing , then your wages will not be garnished for a period of 12 months or the amount garnished may be reduced partial garnishments are reviewed annually. If you are unsuccessful in your hearing , then your wages will be garnished at the full 15-percent rate allowed by law. For more detailed information about wage garnishment or the hearing process including how to request a hearing , contact your loan holder. If you don t know who your loan holder is , you can find out by logging in to My Federal Student Aid. Find out what to do if you believe your loan has been placed in default by mistake. 
If my loan is placed with a collection agency, what other costs might I incur? 
After you default , you are liable for the costs of collecting your defaulted federal student loans. The largest of these costs are usually the costs of placing your loan with a private collection agency. They amount to 17.92% of your outstanding balance, which includes principal, interest, and fees. Before a defaulted loan is placed with a private collection agency , ED will explain what you can do to avoid both the assignment to a private collection agency and the reporting of default status to credit agencies. If you do not enter into a repayment agreement for your defaulted federal student loans , ED will refer your loans to a private collection agency. Private collection agencies earn a commission for any payments you make on loans that ED has referred for collection. When you make a payment , the payment is first applied to the collection cost we charge 17.92% of your outstanding balance due, with the remainder of the payment being applied to interest and principal on your loan. This is one reason that defaulting on your federal student loans can significantly increase the total cost of your loans. On each billing statement , ED projects an estimate of the total amount needed to satisfy the debt on the date of the statement, including collection costs. While the cost of placing your loan with a private collection agency is usually the largest collection cost you may face if you default , there may be other collection costs, such as Treasury offset processing fees and costs associated with potential civil litigation from the Department of Justice. 
How do I contact a collection agency? 
For the loans that it owns , ED currently contracts with the collection agencies that are identified below. If you ve heard from a collection agency but aren t sure how to get in touch with them , review the collection agency contact information below. If you do not know which collection agency your account may have been assigned to , you may contact ED s Default Resolution Group for the agency's address and phone number. 
How do I contact ED s Default Resolution Group? 
There are a variety of ways to contact ED s Default Resolution Group. 
What should I do if I am contacted by someone who wants to charge me fees to get my federal student loan out of default? 
Contact the Default Resolution Group. If you are contacted by a company asking you to pay " enrollment, " " subscription, " or " maintenance " fees to help you get out of default , you should walk away. The Default Resolution Group can help you get your loan out of default for free. Want to learn more? Read our blog post called " Don t Be Fooled: You Never Have to Pay for Student Loan Help. " 

title : Get Temporary Relief | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
Get Temporary Relief 
Sometimes , you just need to suspend your student loan payments for a short period. If you re in a short - term financial bind , you may qualify for a deferment or a forbearance. With either of these options , you can temporarily suspend your payments. NEW : Automatic Suspension of Monthly Payments as a Result of the COVID-19 National Emergency To provide relief to student loan borrowers during the COVID-19 national emergency , federal student loan borrowers are automatically being placed in an administrative forbearance, which allows you to temporarily stop making your monthly loan payments. This suspension of payments will last from March 13 , 2020, through Sept. 30 , 2020 , but you can still make payments if you choose. Have questions? Find out what loans qualify and get additional information about this forbearance and other student loan flexibilities due to the COVID-19 national emergency. When it comes to deferment and forbearance , however , there are two important things to consider : In most cases , interest will accrue during your period of deferment or forbearance except in the case of certain forbearances, such as the one offered as a result of the COVID-19 national emergency. This means your balance will increase and you ll pay more over the life of your loan. If you re pursuing loan forgiveness , any period of deferment or forbearance likely will not count toward your forgiveness requirements. This means you ll stop making progress toward forgiveness until you resume repayment. Consider Another Repayment Plan First Because of the impact on interest and potential loan forgiveness , it might be worth exploring another repayment plan before you consider deferment or forbearance. For example , your payments could be more affordable if you change to an income - driven repayment plan. Contact your loan servicer to find out if another repayment plan might be the best option for you. Discuss obtaining a deferment or forbearance with your loan servicer. Our goal is to keep you on the path to successful repayment of your federal student loan. We want you to avoid delinquency and default. 
Explore Student Loan Deferment and Forbearance 
If you re eligible for a deferment or forbearance , you can temporarily suspend your payments. If you choose to use a deferment or forbearance , consider paying the interest that accrues during that period, so that you can avoid some of the consequences. Here is an example of the impact of forbearance : If you have a loan balance of $30,000 and an interest rate of 6% and you are in forbearance for a year right after you enter repayment , $ 1,800 in interest will accrue on your loans. If you do not pay that interest , it will capitalize be added to your principal balance. Because interest accrues on your principal balance , capitalization will cause more interest to accrue over time than if you had paid the interest. It will also increase your monthly payment under most repayment plans. In this example , if you were on the Standard Repayment Plan , interest capitalization would increase your monthly payment by $20 per month and increase the total amount that you would pay by about $600. Learn more about the variety of deferments and forbearances available and how to request a deferment. 
Get Relief With Lower Payments on an Income-Driven Repayment Plan 
Because of the impact of deferment and forbearance on interest and loan forgiveness , it might be better to consider a different repayment plan such as an income - driven repayment plan. These plans base your monthly student loan payments on your income and family size. In some cases , your payment could be as low as $0 per month. You can also qualify for loan forgiveness on your remaining balance if your loan is not paid in full after 20 or 25 years. Be aware, however, that you may have to pay taxes on the amount forgiven , and if you were making payments of $0 per month, that could be a significant amount of money. Be sure to talk to your loan servicer about the best way to stay on track toward successful repayment of your federal student loan. 

title : Closed School Discharge | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
If your school closes while you re enrolled or soon after you withdraw, you may be eligible for discharge of your federal student loan. 
Learn about the eligibility requirements for discharge and how you can apply. There are certain eligibility requirements to qualify for a closed school discharge ; you must apply to get a discharge. It s important for you to obtain your academic and financial aid records if your school closes since you might need those records if you plan to attend another school or want your student loans discharged. 
Discharge Criteria 
You may be eligible for a 100 percent discharge of your William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program loans, Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loans, or Federal Perkins Loans if you were unable to complete your program because your school closed, and if you were enrolled when your school closed ; you were on an approved leave of absence when your school closed ; or your school closed within 120 days after you withdrew. You are not eligible for discharge of your loans if your school closes and any of the following is true : Except in exceptional circumstances , you withdrew more than 120 days before the school closed. You are completing a comparable educational program at another school through a teach-out, by transferring academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school , or by any other comparable means. You completed all the coursework for the program before the school closed, even if you did not receive a diploma or certificate. 
Discharge Process 
Contact your loan servicer about the application process for getting your loan discharged. Be sure to continue to make payments on your loan while your discharge application is being processed. Find out what happens if your loan discharge is approved. Find out what happens if your loan discharge is denied. 
Automatic Closed School Discharge 
If you meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge of your loans obtained to attend a school that closed on or after Nov. 1 , 2013, and you have not enrolled at another school that participates in the federal student aid programs within three years of the date your prior school closed , you will receive an automatic closed school discharge. This discharge will be initiated by the U.S. Department of Education ED , and you will be notified by your loan servicer. Although this closed school loan discharge is granted automatically after three years have passed since your school s closure , nothing prevents you from applying for and receiving a closed school discharge as soon as your school s official closure date is confirmed by ED. If you 1) attended a school that closed less than three years ago, 2) meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge, and 3) want your loans discharged, contact your loan servicer about applying for a closed school discharge now instead of waiting for three years to receive an automatic closed school discharge. 
Q&A on Closed School Loan Discharges 

What benefits do I have by receiving a closed school loan discharge? 
By receiving a closed school loan discharge , you have no further obligation to repay the loan , you will receive reimbursement of payments made voluntarily or through forced collection , and the record of the loan and all repayment history associated with the loan, including any adverse history, will be deleted from your credit report. 
I have nonfederal loans through private lenders. Can I get those loans discharged? 
You will need to contact the private lender that made the loan to get that information. 
I received loans for several different programs of study at the same school, but I was unable to complete any of the programs or transfer credits from one program to another before the school closed. Can all the loans be discharged? 
Only loans you received for a program that you were unable to complete because of the school s closure are eligible for discharge. For example , if you initially enrolled in Program A, but decided not to continue with that program and transferred to Program B , and you were then unable to complete Program B because the school closed , only loans you received for Program B could potentially be discharged. In the example , you would not be eligible for discharge of any loans you received for Program A, because the school s closure did not prevent you from completing that program. 
I did not complete the program, but I received a diploma or certificate. Does that make me ineligible for a loan discharge? 
No. Before closing , some schools may issue a diploma or certificate to students who did not complete the program of study. If you did not complete your program of study , the fact that the school gave you a diploma or certificate does not disqualify you for discharge. 
I transferred credits from a closed school to a completely different program of study at a new school and completed the new program. Does that make me ineligible for discharge of the loans I received at the closed school? 
No. Transfer of credits from the closed school to a completely different program of study at the new school does not disqualify you for discharge. 
I attended a school that is now closed. Where can I obtain a copy of my academic transcript? 
Contact the state licensing agency in the state where the school was located to find out if the state has the records. 
My school informed me that they have arranged a teach-out with neighboring schools. What is a teach-out? 
A teach - out is a written agreement between schools that provides for the equitable treatment of students and a reasonable opportunity for students to complete their program of study if a school ceases to operate before all students have completed their program of study. 
If my school closes and I then enroll in a comparable program at another school, can I still receive a discharge of the loans I received at the closed school? 
It depends. If you completed or are in the process of completing a comparable program of study at another school through a teach - out , by transferring academic credits or hours from the closed school, or by any other comparable means , you are not eligible for a closed school discharge. However , you may be eligible for discharge if you completed or are in the process of completing a comparable program at another school , but you did not participate in a teach - out, transfer credits or hours from the closed school, or benefit from the training you received at the closed school by any other comparable means, and if you otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge. 

title : Listing Colleges on the FAFSA Form | Federal Student Aid#1
document : 
While completing the FAFSA form, you must list at least one college to receive your information. 
The schools you list will use your FAFSA information to determine the types and amounts of aid you may receive. The information you report on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid FAFSA form is sent to each school you list. Use the Federal School Code Search to find the colleges you re interested in including on your FAFSA form. You don t need to apply for admission to a school before you list it on your FAFSA form ; you can list all the schools to which you have applied or might apply. The school will have access to your information within a few days of when you submit your FAFSA form but will not necessarily contact you with an aid offer right away. Learn about what happens after you fill out the FAFSA form. 
Maximum Number of Schools You Can List 
You can list up to 10 schools online or in the myStudentAid app or up to four schools on a PDF FAFSA form. You can add more schools to your FAFSA form later. 
Order of Schools on Your List 
For purposes of federal student aid , it does not matter in what order you list the schools. However , to be considered for state aid , some states require your schools to be listed in a specified order. Scroll down or click on the name of your state below to find your state s guidance for listing schools on your FAFSA form. Alabama The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Alaska You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Arizona You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Arkansas The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. California You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Colorado You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Connecticut You must list a college located in Connecticut within the first 2 positions to be considered for state aid. If you update your school choices later , please notify your state agency by sending an email to sfa@ctohe.org. Delaware The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. District of Columbia The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Florida You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Georgia You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Hawaii You must list an eligible Hawaii public college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact the results. Idaho You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Illinois You must list at least one eligible Illinois college in order for preliminary eligibility for state grant aid to be calculated. If you update your school choice later , work with your school s financial aid office to be sure you receive any aid for which you are eligible. Indiana You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Iowa You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Kansas You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Kentucky You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Louisiana You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Maine The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Maryland You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Massachusetts Grant aid awards will be made for the first eligible college listed on the FAFSA form ; however , if you update your school choice later , please notify your state agency by accessing the Office of Student Financial Assistance student portal. Michigan You must list an eligible Michigan college to be considered for state grant aid. Initial grant awards will be made to the college listed first on your FAFSA form. If you update your school choice later , please notify your state agency by accessing the Michigan Student Scholarships and Grants student portal. Minnesota You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Mississippi You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Missouri You must list an eligible Missouri college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Montana You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Nebraska You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Nevada You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. New Hampshire The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. New Jersey You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. New Mexico You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. New York You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. North Carolina You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. North Dakota You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Ohio The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Oklahoma You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Oregon You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Pennsylvania Grant aid awards will be made for the first college listed on the FAFSA form. If you update your school choice later , please notify your state agency by signing in to your Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency Account Access to provide updated school information. Pennsylvania will make aid awards for students to attend eligible colleges in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Massachusetts, Delaware, Vermont, and the District of Columbia. Puerto Rico You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Rhode Island You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. South Carolina You must list an eligible South Carolina college to be considered for state aid. Please put the colleges that you are most likely to attend in the first spots in your list. If you change your school choices later , please notify your state agency by following the instructions to transfer your grant to a new school in the What if I transfer to another college? section at https://sctuitiongrants.org/faq/. South Dakota The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Tennessee You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. If you update your school choices later , please notify your state agency by changing your institution in the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation Student Portal. Texas You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. U.S. Virgin Islands The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Utah You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Vermont To be considered for state aid , list your first - choice colleges from any state in the first 3 positions. If you update your school choices later , please notify your state agency by using the Vermont Student Assistance Corporation Student Portal. Virginia You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Washington You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. West Virginia You must list an eligible West Virginia college to be considered for state grant aid. Grant awards will initially be made for your first - choice college in the first position. If you update your school choice later , please notify your state agency by contacting the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission at 304 - 558 - 4618. Wisconsin You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. Wyoming You must list an eligible in - state college to be considered for state grant aid. The order in which you list the colleges will not impact your eligibility for state aid programs. 

