RespiRatoRy disease
CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
6
6
9
Thorax
(see opposite)
–
5
Inspection
Deformity
(e.g. pectus excavatum)
Scars
Intercostal indrawing
Symmetry of expansion
Hyperinflation
Paradoxical rib movement
(low flat diaphragm)
Face, mouth and eyes
Pursed lips
Central cyanosis
Anaemia
Horner’s syndrome
(Ch. 26)
Idiopathic kyphoscoliosis
4
Jugular venous pulse
Elevated
Pulsatile
7
3
Blood pressure
Arterial paradox
2
Palpation
From the front:
  Trachea central
  Cricosternal distance
  Cardiac apex displaced
  Expansion
From behind:
  Cervical lymphadenopathy
  Expansion
Radial pulse
Rate
Rhythm
8
Percussion
Resonant or dull
‘Stony dull’ (effusion)
1
9
Hands
Digital clubbing
Tar staining
Peripheral cyanosis
Signs of occupation
CO2 retention flap
Auscultation
Breath sounds:
normal, bronchial, louder or softer
Added sounds:
wheezes, crackles, rubs
Spoken voice (vocal resonance):
absent (effusion), increased
(consolidation)
Whispered voice:
whispering pectoriloquy
10
Leg oedema
Cor pulmonale
Venous thrombosis
Observation
Finger clubbing
• Locale
    Oxygen delivery (mask, cannulae)
    Nebulisers
    Inhalers
• Respiratory rate
• Cachexia, fever, rash
• Sputum (see below)
• Fetor
Sputum
Serous/frothy/pink
 Pulmonary oedema
Mucopurulent
 Bronchial or pneumonic
 infection
Purulent
 Bronchial or pneumonic
 infection
Blood-stained
 Cancer, tuberculosis,
 bronchiectasis,
 pulmonary embolism
644
Clinical examination of the respiratory system
Pulmonary fibrosis
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Central cyanosis
Tachypnoea
Pursed lip breathing
Central cyanosis
Prolonged expiration
Reduced cricosternal
distance
Small lungs
Reduced
expansion
Use of accessory
muscles
Auscultation
  Fine inspiratory
  crackles at
  bases
Intercostal
indrawing
during
inspiration
Hyperinflated
‘barrel’ chest
Auscultation
  Reduced breath
  sounds – wheeze
See also Fig. 19.57
Cardiac apex not
palpable
Loss of cardiac
dullness on
percussion
Dull percussion at bases
(high diaphragm)
Heart sounds
loudest in
epigastrium
Inward movement
of lower ribs
on inspiration
(low flat diaphragm)
Also: finger clubbing common in
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; raised JVP
and peripheral oedema if cor pulmonale
Also: raised JVP, peripheral oedema if cor pulmonale
Right middle lobe pneumonia
Right upper lobe collapse
Inspection
  ↓Volume R upper zone
Palpation
  Trachea deviated to R
  ↓Expansion R upper zone
Percussion
  Dull R upper zone
Auscultation
  ↓Breath sounds with
 central obstruction
Inspection
   Tachypnoea
   Central cyanosis (if severe)
Palpation
   ↓Expansion on R
Percussion
   Dull R mid-zone and axilla
Auscultation
   Bronchial breath sounds
   and ↑vocal resonance over
   consolidation and whispering
 pectoriloquy
   Pleural rub if pleurisy
Obscures R heart border
on X-ray
X-ray
  Deviated trachea (to R)
  Elevated horizontal fissure
  ↓Volume R hemithorax
  Central (hilar) mass may
 be seen
Right pneumothorax
Large right pleural effusion
Inspection
  Tachypnoea (pain, deflation
  reflex)
Palpation
  ↓Expansion R side
Percussion
  Resonant or hyper-resonant
  on R
Auscultation
  Absent breath sounds on R
Inspection
   Tachypnoea
Palpation
   ↓Expansion on R
   Trachea and apex may be
   moved to L
Percussion
   Stony dull
   R mid- and lower zones
Auscultation
   Absent breath sounds and
   vocal resonance R base
   Bronchial breathing or
    crackles above effusion
Tension pneumothorax also
 causes
Deviation of trachea to
 
opposite side
    Tachycardia and
hypotension 
Insets (Upper lobe collapse) http://3.bp.blogspot.com; (Pneumothorax) http://chestatlas.com; (Pleural effusion) www.ispub.com – see p. 731. 
645
RespiRatoRy disease
19
Respiratory disease is responsible for a major burden of 
morbidity and untimely death, with conditions such as 
tuberculosis, pandemic influenza and pneumonia the 
most important in world health terms. The increasing 
prevalence of allergy, asthma and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) contributes to the overall 
burden of chronic disease in the community. By 2025, 
the number of cigarette smokers worldwide is antici-
pated to increase to 1.5 billion, ensuring a growing 
burden of tobacco-related respiratory conditions.
Respiratory disease covers a breadth of pathologies, 
including infectious, inflammatory, neoplastic and 
degenerative processes. The practice of respiratory 
medi cine thus requires collaboration with a range of 
disciplines. Recent advances have improved the lives of 
many patients with obstructive lung disease, cystic 
fibrosis, obstructive sleep apnoea and pulmonary hyper-
tension, but the outlook remains poor for lung and other 
respiratory cancers, and for some of the fibrosing lung 
conditions.
FUNCTIONAL ANATOMY  
AND PHYSIOLOGY
The lungs occupy the upper two-thirds of the bony 
thorax, bounded medially by the spine, the heart and the 
mediastinum and inferiorly by the diaphragm. During 
breathing, free movement of the lung surface relative to 
the chest wall is facilitated by sliding contact between 
the parietal and visceral pleura, which cover the inner 
surface of the chest wall and the lung respectively, and 
are normally in close apposition. Inspiration involves 
downward contraction of the dome-shaped diaphragm 
(innervated by the phrenic nerves originating from C3, 
4 and 5) and upward, outward movement of the ribs  
on the costovertebral joints, caused by contraction of  
the external intercostal muscles (innervated by intercos-
tal nerves originating from the thoracic spinal cord). 
Expiration is largely passive, driven by elastic recoil  
of the lungs.
The conducting airways from the nose to the alveoli 
connect the external environment with the extensive, 
thin and vulnerable alveolar surface. As air is inhaled 
through the upper airways, it is filtered in the nose, 
heated to body temperature and fully saturated with 
water vapour; partial recovery of this heat and moisture 
occurs on expiration. Total airway cross-section is small-
est in the glottis and trachea, making the central airway 
particularly vulnerable to obstruction by foreign bodies 
and tumours. Normal breath sounds originate mainly 
from the rapid turbulent airflow in the larynx, trachea 
and main bronchi.
The multitude of small airways within the lung 
parenchyma has a very large combined cross-sectional 
area (over 300 cm2 in the third-generation respiratory 
bronchioles), resulting in very slow flow rates. Airflow 
is normally silent here, and gas transport occurs largely 
by diffusion in the final generations. Major bronchial 
and pulmonary divisions are shown in Figure 19.1.
The acinus (Fig. 19.2) is the gas exchange unit of the 
lung and comprises branching respiratory bronchioles 
Major bronchial subdivisions
3
3
Upper
lobe
2
2
1
Upper
lobe
1
4
1
1
2
1
Middle
lobe
4
4
5
RIGHT
LEFT
Lower
lobe
Lower
lobe
3
2
3
2
Spine
Spine
2
Upper
lobe
Anterior
3
Upper
lobe
3
2
1
1
1
ssure
T
r
a
se fi
ns
ver
Middle
lobe
2
1
1
4
4
4
2
que fissure
2
3
Lower
lobe
bli
O
5
Lower
lobe
3
Lateral aspects of lungs
Fig. 19.1 The major bronchial divisions 
and the fissures, lobes and segments 
of the lungs. The angle of the oblique 
fissure means that the left upper lobe is 
largely anterior to the lower lobe. On the 
right, the transverse fissure separates the 
upper from the anteriorly placed middle lobe, 
which is matched by the lingular segment on 
the left side. The site of a lobe determines 
whether physical signs are mainly anterior or 
posterior. Each lobe is composed of two or 
more bronchopulmonary segments that are 
supplied by the main branches of each lobar 
bronchus.
Bronchopulmonary segments:
Right Upper lobe: (1) Anterior, (2) Posterior, 
(3) Apical. Middle lobe: (1) Lateral, 
(2) Medial. Lower lobe: (1) Apical, 
(2) Posterior basal, (3) Lateral basal,  
(4) Anterior basal, (5) Medial basal.
Left Upper lobe: (1) Anterior, (2) Apical, 
(3) Posterior, (4) Lingular. Lower lobe: 
(1) Apical, (2) Posterior basal, (3) Lateral 
basal, (4) Anterior basal. 
646
Functional anatomy and physiology 
A
B
C
Smooth
muscle
Terminal
bronchiole
Bronchial
artery
Pulmonary
artery
Pulmonary
vein
Cartilage
plates
Bronchus
Respiratory
bronchiole
Elastin
fibres
Bronchiole
19
Interlobular
septum
Alveolar
capillaries
Terminal
bronchiole
Alveoli
Pores of Kohn
Respiratory
bronchiole
Alveoli
Fig. 19.2 Functional anatomy of the lung.  A The tapering, branching bronchus is armoured against compression by plates of cartilage. The more 
distal bronchioles are collapsible, but held patent by surrounding elastic tissue.  B The unit of lung supplied by a terminal bronchiole is called an acinus. 
The bronchiolar wall contains smooth muscle and elastin fibres. The latter also run through the alveolar walls. Gas exchange occurs in the alveoli, which 
are connected to each other by the pores of Kohn.  C Vascular anatomy of an acinus. Both the pulmonary artery (carrying desaturated blood) and the 
bronchial artery (systemic supply to airway tissue) run along the bronchus. The venous drainage to the left atrium follows the interlobular septa. From 
www.Netter.com – see p. 731.
and clusters of alveoli. Here the air makes close contact 
with the blood in the pulmonary capillaries (gas-to-
blood distance < 0.4 µm), and oxygen uptake and CO2 
excretion occur. The alveoli are lined with flattened epi-
thelial cells (type I pneumocytes) and a few, more cuboi-
dal, type II pneumocytes. The latter produce surfactant, 
which is a mixture of phospholipids that reduces surface 
tension and counteracts the tendency of alveoli to col-
lapse under surface tension. Type II pneumocytes can 
divide to reconstitute type I pneumocytes after lung 
injury.
breath passes to the basal regions, which also receive the 
greatest blood flow as a result of gravity. Elastin fibres 
in alveolar walls maintain small airway patency by 
radial traction on the airway walls. Even in health, 
however, these small airways narrow during expiration 
because they are surrounded by alveoli at higher pres-
sure, but are prevented from collapsing by radial elastic 
traction. The volume that can be exhaled is thus limited 
purely by the capacity of the expiratory muscles to 
distort the chest wall inwards. In emphysema, loss of 
alveolar walls leaves the small airways unsupported, 
and their collapse on expiration causes air trapping and 
high end-expiratory volume (p. 673).
Control of breathing
The respiratory motor neurons in the posterior medulla 
oblongata are the origin of the respiratory cycle. Their 
activity is modulated by multiple external inputs in 
health and in disease (see Fig. 19.10, p. 657):
• Central chemoreceptors in the ventrolateral  
medulla sense the pH of the cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) and are indirectly stimulated by a rise in 
arterial PCO2.
• The carotid bodies sense hypoxaemia but are 
mainly activated by arterial PO2 values below 8 KPa 
(60 mmHg). They are also sensitised to hypoxia by 
raised arterial PCO2.
• Muscle spindles in the respiratory muscles sense 
647
changes in mechanical load.
Lung mechanics
Healthy alveolar walls contain a fine network of elastin 
and collagen fibres (see Fig. 19.2). The volume of the 
lungs at the end of a tidal (‘normal’) breath out is called 
the functional residual capacity (FRC). At this volume, 
the inward elastic recoil of the lungs (resulting from 
elastin fibres and surface tension in the alveolar lining 
fluid) is balanced by the resistance of the chest wall to 
inward distortion from its resting shape, causing nega-
tive pressure in the pleural space. Elastin fibres allow  
the lung to be easily distended at physiological lung 
volumes, but collagen fibres cause increasing stiffness 
as full inflation is approached so that, in health, the 
maximum inspiratory volume is limited by the lung 
(rather than the chest wall). Within the lung, the weight 
of tissue compresses the dependent regions and distends 
the uppermost parts, so a greater portion of an inhaled 
RespiRatoRy disease
• Vagal sensory fibres from the lung may be 
19.1 Respiratory function in old age
19
stimulated by stretch, by inhaled toxins or by 
disease processes in the interstitium.
• Reserve capacity: a significant reduction in function can 
• Cortical (volitional) and limbic (emotional) 
occur with ageing with only minimal effect on normal 
breathing, but the ability to combat acute disease is reduced.
influences can override the automatic control of 
breathing.
• Decline in FEV1: the FEV1/FVC (forced expiratory volume/
forced vital capacity, p. 652) ratio falls by around 0.2% per 
year from 70% at the age of 40–45 years, due to a decline 
in elastic recoil in the small airways with age. Smoking 
accelerates this decline threefold on average. Symptoms 
usually occur only when FEV1 drops below 50% of predicted.
• Increasing ventilation–perfusion mismatch: the reduction 
in elastic recoil causes a tendency for the small airways to 
collapse during expiration, particularly in dependent areas of 
the lungs, thus reducing ventilation.
• Reduced ventilatory responses to hypoxia and 
hypercapnia: older people may be less tachypnoeic for any 
given fall in PaO2 or rise in PaCO2.
• Impaired defences against infection: due to reduced 
numbers of glandular epithelial cells, which lead to a 
reduction in protective mucus.
• Decline in maximum oxygen uptake: due to a combination 
Ventilation/perfusion matching and 
the pulmonary circulation
To achieve optimal gas exchange within the lungs, the 
regional distribution of ventilation and perfusion must 
be matched. At segmental and subsegmental level, 
hypoxia constricts pulmonary arterioles and airway CO2 
dilates bronchi, helping to maintain good regional 
matching of ventilation and perfusion. Lung disease 
may create regions of relative underventilation or under-
perfusion, which disturb this regional matching, causing 
respiratory failure (p. 663). In addition to causing 
ventilation–perfusion mismatch, diseases that destroy 
capillaries or thicken the alveolar capillary membrane 
(e.g. emphysema or fibrosis) can impair gas diffusion 
directly.
The pulmonary circulation in health operates at low 
of impairments in muscle, and the respiratory and 
cardiovascular systems. This leads to a reduction in 
cardiorespiratory reserve and exercise capacity.
• Loss of chest wall compliance: due to reduced 
intervertebral disc spaces and ossification of the costal 
cartilages; respiratory muscle strength and endurance also 
decline. These changes only become important in the 
presence of other respiratory disease.
M
M
pressure (approximately 24/9 mmHg), and can accom-
modate large increases in flow with minimal rise in pres-
sure, such as during exercise. Pulmonary hypertension 
occurs when vessels are destroyed by emphysema, 
obstructed by thrombus, involved in interstitial inflam-
mation or thickened by pulmonary vascular disease. The 
right ventricle responds by hypertrophy, with right axis 
deviation and P pulmonale on the ECG. Pulmonary 
hypertension with hypoxia and hypercapnia is associ-
ated with generalised salt and water retention (‘cor pul-
monale’), with elevation of the jugular venous pressure 
(JVP) and peripheral oedema. This is thought to result 
mainly from a failure of the hypoxic and hypercapnic 
kidney to excrete sufficient salt and water.
C
C
Fig. 19.3 The mucociliary escalator. Scanning electron micrograph of 
the respiratory epithelium showing large numbers of cilia (C) overlaid by 
the mucus ‘raft’ (M). 
Lung defences
Upper airway defences
Large airborne particles are trapped by nasal hairs, and 
smaller particles settling on the mucosa are cleared 
towards the oropharynx by the columnar ciliated epithe-
lium which covers the turbinates and septum (Fig. 19.3). 
During cough, expiratory muscle effort against a closed 
glottis results in high intrathoracic pressure, which is 
then released explosively. The flexible posterior tracheal 
wall is pushed inwards by the high surrounding pres-
sure, which reduces tracheal cross-section and thus max-
imises the airspeed to achieve effective expectoration. 
The larynx also acts as a sphincter, protecting the airway 
during swallowing and vomiting.
Lower airway defences
The sterility, structure and function of the lower airways 
are maintained by close cooperation between the innate 
and adaptive immune responses (pp. 72 and 76).
The innate response in the lungs is characterised 
648
mucociliary transport is also a feature of several rare 
diseases, including Kartagener’s syndrome, Young’s 
syndrome and ciliary dysmotility syndrome, which are 
cha racterised by repeated sino-pulmonary infections 
and bronchiectasis.
Airway secretions contain an array of antimicrobial 
peptides (such as defensins, immunoglobulin A (IgA) 
and lysozyme), antiproteinases and antioxidants. Many 
assist with the opsonisation and killing of bacteria, and 
the regulation of the powerful proteolytic enzymes 
secreted by inflammatory cells. In particular, α1-
antiproteinase (A1Pi) regulates neutrophil elastase, and 
deficiency of this may be associated with premature 
emphysema.
by a number of non-specific defence mechanisms. 
Inhaled particulate matter is trapped in airway mucus 
and cleared by the mucociliary escalator. Cigarette 
smoke increases mucus secretion but reduces mucocili-
ary clearance and predisposes towards lower respira-
tory tract infections, including pneumonia. Defective 
Investigation of respiratory disease
19.2 How to interpret a chest X-ray
Name, date, 
orientation
Films are postero-anterior (PA) unless  
marked AP to denote that they are  
antero-posterior
Lung fields
Equal translucency?
Check horizontal fissure from right  
hilum to sixth rib at the anterior  
axillary line
Masses? Consolidation? Cavitation?
Lung apices
Check behind the clavicles: Masses? 
Consolidation? Cavitation?
Macrophages engulf microbes, organic dusts and 
other particulate matter. They are unable to digest inor-
ganic agents, such as asbestos or silica, which lead to 
their death and the release of powerful proteolytic 
enzymes that cause parenchymal damage. Neutrophil 
numbers in the airway are low, but the pulmonary cir-
culation contains a marginated pool that may be 
recruited rapidly in response to bacterial infection. This 
may explain the prominence of lung injury in sepsis 
syndromes and trauma.
Adaptive immunity is characterised by the specificity 
of the response and the development of memory. Lung 
dendritic cells facilitate antigen presentation to T and B 
lymphocytes.
Trachea
Central? (Midway between the clavicular 
heads)
Paratracheal mass? Goitre?
INVESTIGATION OF RESPIRATORY 
DISEASE
Heart
Normal shape?
Cardiothoracic ratio (should be < half 
the intrathoracic diameter)
Retrocardiac mass?
19
A detailed history, thorough examination and basic 
haem atological and biochemical tests usually indicate 
the likely diagnosis and differential. A number of other 
investigations are normally required to confirm the 
diagnosis and/or monitor disease activity.
Hila
Left should be higher than right
Shape? (Should be concave laterally;  
if convex, consider mass or 
lymphadenopathy)
Density?
Imaging
Diaphragm
Right should be higher than left
Hyperinflation? (No more than 10 ribs  
should be visible posteriorly above the 
diaphragm)
Costophrenic 
angles
Acute and well defined? (Pleural fluid or 
thickening, if not)
Soft tissues
Breast shadows in females
Chest wall for masses or subcutaneous 
emphysema
Bones
Ribs, vertebrae, scapulae and clavicles
Any fracture visible at bone margins or 
lucencies?
The ‘plain’ chest X-ray
This is performed on the majority of patients suspected 
of having chest disease. A postero-anterior (PA) film 
provides information on the lung fields, heart, mediasti-
num, vascular structures and thoracic cage (Fig. 19.4). 
Additional information may be obtained from a lateral 
film, particularly if pathology is suspected behind the 
heart shadow or deep in the diaphragmatic sulci. An 
approach to interpreting the chest X-ray is given in Box 
19.2, and common abnormalities are listed in Box 19.3.
Lung apex
Trachea
Clavicular heads symmetrical
either side of spine – no rotation
Medial border
of scapula
Aortic arch
Right hilum
Left hilum
Right atrial
border
Left ventricular
border
Cardiac apex
Right
costophrenic
angle
Right hemidiaphragm
Left hemidiaphragm
(normally lower than right)
Right cardiophrenic angle
Gastric air bubble
Fig. 19.4 The normal chest X-ray. 
The lung markings consist of branching 
and tapering lines radiating out from the 
hila. Where airways and vessels turn 
towards the film, they can appear as 
open or filled circles (see upper pole of 
right hilum). The scapulae may overlie 
the lung fields; trace the edge  
of bony structures to avoid mistaking 
them for pleural or pulmonary shadows. 
To check for hyperinflation, count the 
ribs; if more than 10 are visible 
posteriorly above the diaphragm, the 
lungs are hyperinflated. From Innes 2009 
– see p. 731.
649
RespiRatoRy disease
19.3 Common chest X-ray abnormalities
19
Left 
upper 
lobe
Pulmonary and pleural shadowing
• Consolidation: infection, infarction, inflammation, and rarely 
bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma
• Lobar collapse: mucus plugging, tumour, compression by 
lymph nodes
• Solitary nodule: see page 660
• Multiple nodules: miliary tuberculosis (TB), dust inhalation, 
Lingula
metastatic malignancy, healed varicella pneumonia, 
rheumatoid disease
• Ring shadows, tramlines and tubular shadows: 
bronchiectasis
• Cavitating lesions: tumour, abscess, infarct, pneumonia 
(Staphylococcus/Klebsiella), granulomatosis with polyangiitis
• Reticular, nodular and reticulonodular shadows: diffuse 
parenchymal lung disease, infection
• Pleural abnormalities: fluid, plaques, tumour
Increased translucency
• Bullae
• Pneumothorax
• Oligaemia
Left 
lower 
lobe
Hilar abnormalities
• Unilateral hilar enlargement: TB, bronchial carcinoma, 
lymphoma
• Bilateral hilar enlargement: sarcoid, lymphoma, TB, 
silicosis
Other abnormalities
• Hiatus hernia
• Surgical emphysema
Right 
upper 
lobe
Increased shadowing may represent accumulation of 
Right 
middle
lobe
fluid, lobar collapse or consolidation. Uncomplicated 
consolidation should not change the position of the 
mediastinum and the presence of an air bronchogram 
means that proximal bronchi are patent. Collapse 
(implying obstruction of the lobar bronchus) is accom-
panied by loss of volume and displacement of the medi-
astinum towards the affected side (Fig. 19.5).
The presence of ring shadows (thickened bronchi 
seen end-on), tramline shadows (thickened bronchi side-
on) or tubular shadows (bronchi filled with secretions) 
suggests bronchiectasis, but computed tomography is a 
much more sensitive test than plain X-ray in bron-
chiectasis. The presence of pleural fluid is suggested by 
a dense basal shadow, which, in the erect patient, 
ascends towards the axilla (p. 645). In large pulmonary 
embolism, relative oligaemia may cause a lung field to 
appear abnormally dark.
Right 
lower 
lobe
Fig. 19.5 Radiological features of lobar collapse caused by 
bronchial obstruction. The dotted line in the drawings represents the 
normal position of the diaphragm. The dark pink area represents the extent 
of shadowing seen on the X-ray. 
650
Computed tomography
Computed tomography (CT) provides detailed images 
of the pulmonary parenchyma, mediastinum, pleura 
and bony structures. The displayed range of densities 
can be adjusted to highlight different structures, such as 
the lung parenchyma, the mediastinal vascular struc-
tures or bone. Sophisticated software facilitates three-
dimensional reconstruction of the thorax and virtual 
bronchoscopy.
CT is superior to chest radiography in determining 
the position and size of a pulmonary lesion and whether 
calcification or cavitation is present. It is now routinely 
used in the assessment of patients with suspected lung 
Investigation of respiratory disease
organs such as the liver, spleen and kidneys, thereby 
allowing safe pleural aspiration, biopsy and intercostal 
chest drain insertion. Ultrasound can also be used to 
guide needle biopsy of superficial lymph node or chest 
wall masses and provides useful information on the 
shape and movement of the diaphragm. Endobronchial 
ultrasound (EBUS) is described below.
cancer and facilitates guided percutaneous needle 
biopsy. Information on tumour stage may be gained by 
examining the mediastinum, liver and adrenal glands.
High-resolution CT (HRCT) uses thin sections to 
provide detailed images of the pulmonary parenchyma 
and is particularly useful in assessing diffuse parenchy-
mal lung disease, identifying bronchiectasis (Fig. 19.30, 
p. 679), and assessing type and extent of emphysema.
Endoscopic examination
Laryngoscopy
The larynx may be inspected directly with a fibreoptic 
laryngoscope and this is useful in cases of suspected 
vocal cord dysfunction, when paradoxical movement of 
the vocal cords may mimic asthma. Left-sided lung 
tumours may involve the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, 
paralysing the left vocal cord and leading to a hoarse 
voice and a ‘bovine’ cough.
19
Assessment of the pulmonary circulation
CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) has become the 
investigation of choice in the diagnosis of pulmonary 
thromboembolism (see Fig. 19.69, p. 679), when it may 
either confirm the suspected embolism or highlight  
an alternative diagnosis. It has largely replaced the 
radioisotope-based ventilation–perfusion scan, although 
the latter continues to provide useful infor mation in the 
pre-operative assessment of patients being considered 
for lung resection. In pulmonary hypertension, Doppler 
echocardiographic assessment of tricuspid regurgitant 
jets allows accurate non-invasive measurement of pul-
monary artery pressure in most cases. Right heart cath-
eterisation is still used in the investigation of patients 
with pulmonary hypertension in specialised centres, as 
it permits accurate measurement of response to pulmo-
nary vasodilators.
Bronchoscopy
The trachea and the first 3–4 generations of bronchi may 
be inspected using a flexible bronchoscope. Flexible 
bronchoscopy is usually performed under local anaes-
thesia with sedation, on an outpatient basis. Abnormal 
tissue in the bronchial lumen or wall can be biopsied, 
and bronchial brushings, washings or aspirates can be 
taken for cytological or bacteriological examination. 
Small biopsy specimens of lung tissue, taken by forceps 
passed through the bronchial wall (transbronchial biop-
sies), may be helpful in the diagnosis of bronchocentric 
disorders such as sarcoid, hypersensitivity pneumonitis 
and diffuse malignancy, but are generally too small to 
be of diagnostic value in other diffuse parenchymal pul-
monary disease (p. 706). Transbronchial needle aspira-
tion (TBNA) may be used to sample mediastinal lymph 
nodes and to stage lung cancer.
Rigid bronchoscopy requires general anaesthesia and 
is reserved for specific situations, such as massive haem-
optysis or removal of foreign bodies (see Fig. 19.9,  
p. 655). Endobronchial laser therapy and endobronchial 
stenting may be easier with rigid bronchoscopy.
Positron emission tomography
Positron emission tomography (PET) scanners exploit 
the ability of malignant tissue to absorb and metabo lise 
glucose avidly. The radiotracer 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose 
(FDG) is infused and rapidly taken up by malignant 
tissue. It is then phosphorylated but cannot be metabo-
lised further, becoming ‘trapped’ in the cell. PET is 
useful in the investigation of pulmonary nodules, and in 
staging mediastinal lymph nodes and distal metastatic 
disease in patients with lung cancer. The negative pre-
dictive value is high; however, the positive predictive 
value is poor. Co-registration of PET and CT (PET-CT) 
enhances localisation and characterisation of metaboli-
cally active deposits (Fig. 19.6). Future advances will  
see the combination of PET and magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI).
Ultrasound
Ultrasound is used to assess the pleural space for pleural 
fluid, which appears as a hypoechoic space. It also 
allows direct visualisation of the diaphragm and solid 
Assessment of the mediastinum
The sampling of mediastinal lymph nodes is essential in 
the diagnosis and staging of lung cancer and may 
confirm the diagnosis of non-malignant conditions,  
such as tuberculosis or sarcoidosis. Endobronchial 
A
B
C
Fig. 19.6 Computed tomography and positron emission tomography combined to reveal intrathoracic metastases.  A In a patient with 
lung cancer, CT shows some posterior pleural thickening.  B PET scanning reveals FDG uptake in two pleural lesions (arrows).  C The lesions are 
highlighted in yellow in the combined PET/CT image. From http://radiology.rsnajnls.org – see p. 731.
651
RespiRatoRy disease
19
ultrasound (EBUS), using a specialised bronchoscope, 
allows directed needle aspiration from peribronchial 
nodes and is used increasingly to determine disease 
extent. Lymph nodes down to the main carina can also 
be sampled using a mediastinoscope passed through a 
small incision at the suprasternal notch under general 
anaesthetic. Lymph nodes in the lower mediastinum 
may be biopsied via the oesophagus using endoscopic 
ultrasound (EUS), an oesophageal endoscope equipped 
with an ultrasound transducer and biopsy needle.
be made. This is particularly important in suspected 
malignancy or in characterising the pathological changes 
in interstitial lung disease. Important causative organ-
isms, such as M. tuberculosis, Pneumocystis jirovecii or 
fungi, may be identified in bronchial washings, brush-
ings or transbronchial biopsies.
Cytological examination of exfoliated cells in pleural 
fluid or bronchial brushings and washings, or of fine 
needle aspirates from lymph nodes or pulmonary 
lesions, can support a diagnosis of malignancy but, if 
this is indeterminate, a larger tissue biopsy is often  
necessary. Differential cell counts in bronchial lavage 
fluid may help to distinguish pulmonary changes due  
to sarcoidosis (p. 709) from those caused by idiopathic 
pulmonary fibrosis (p. 706) or hypersensitivity pneu-
monitis (p. 719).
Investigation of pleural disease
Core biopsy of the pleura, guided by either ultrasound 
or CT, has largely replaced the traditional ‘blind’ method 
of pleural biopsy using an Abram’s needle. Thoracos-
copy, which involves the insertion of an endoscope 
through the chest wall, facilitates biopsy under direct 
vision and is performed by many surgeons and an 
increasing number of physicians.
Respiratory function testing
Immunological and serological tests
Respiratory function tests are used to aid diagnosis, 
assess functional impairment, and monitor treatment or 
progression of disease. Airway narrowing, lung volume 
and gas exchange capacity are quantified and compared 
with normal values adjusted for age, gender, height  
and ethnic origin. In diseases characterised by airway 
narrowing (e.g. asthma, bronchitis and emphysema), 
maximum expiratory flow is limited by dynamic com-
pression of small intrathoracic airways, some of which 
may close completely during expiration, limiting the 
volume that can be expired (‘obstructive’ defect). Hyper-
inflation of the chest results, and can become extreme if 
elastic recoil is also lost due to parenchymal destruction, 
as in emphysema. In contrast, diseases that cause inter-
stitial inflammation and/or fibrosis lead to progressive 
loss of lung volume (‘restrictive’ defect) with normal 
expiratory flow rates. Typical laboratory traces are illus-
trated in Figure 19.7.
The presence of pneumococcal antigen (revealed by 
counter-immunoelectrophoresis) in sputum, blood or 
urine may be of diagnostic importance in pneumonia. 
Influenza viruses can be detected in throat swab samples 
by fluorescent antibody techniques. In blood, high or 
rising antibody titres to specific organisms (such as 
Legionella, Mycoplasma, Chlamydia or viruses) may even-
tually clinch a diagnosis suspected on clinical grounds 
but early diagnosis of Legionella is best done by urine 
antigen testing. Precipitating antibodies may indicate a 
reaction to fungi such as Aspergillus (p. 697) or to antigens 
involved in hypersensitivity pneumonitis (p. 719). Total 
levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE), and levels of IgE 
directed against specific antigens, can be useful in assess-
ing the contribution of allergy to respiratory disease.
Skin tests
The tuberculin test (p. 695) may be of value in the diag-
nosis of tuberculosis. Skin hypersensitivity tests are 
useful in the investigation of allergic diseases (p. 89).
Microbiological investigations
Sputum, pleural fluid, throat swabs, blood, and bron-
chial washings and aspirates can be examined for 
bacteria, fungi and viruses. In some cases, as when 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is isolated, the information is 
diagnostically conclusive but, in others, the findings 
must be interpreted in conjunction with the results of 
clinical and radiological examination.
The use of hypertonic saline to induce expectoration 
of sputum is useful in facilitating the collection of speci-
mens for microbiology, particularly in patients in whom 
more invasive procedures, such as bronchoscopy, are 
not possible. The technique also allows assessment of 
the inflammatory cell population of the airway, which is 
a useful research tool in many conditions, including 
asthma, COPD and interstitial lung disease.
652
Measurement of airway 
obstruction
Airway narrowing is assessed by asking patients to blow 
out as hard and as fast as they can into a peak flow meter 
or a spirometer. Peak flow meters are cheap and conven-
ient for home monitoring of peak expiratory flow (PEF) 
in the detection and monitoring of asthma, but results 
are effort-dependent. More accurate and reproducible 
measures are obtained by inhaling fully, then exhaling 
at maximum effort into a spirometer. The forced expired 
volume in 1 second (FEV1) is the volume exhaled in 
the first second, and the forced vital capacity (FVC) is 
the total volume exhaled. FEV1 is disproportionately 
reduced in airflow obstruction, resulting in FEV1/FVC 
ratios of less than 70%. In this situation, spirometry 
should be repeated following inhaled short-acting β2-
adrenoceptor agonists (e.g. salbutamol); a large improve-
ment in FEV1 (over 400 mL) and variability in peak flow 
over time are features of asthma (p. 668).
To distinguish large airway narrowing (e.g. tracheal 
stenosis or compression) from small airway narrowing, 
flow/volume loops are recorded using spirometry. 
These display flow in relation to lung volume (rather 
than time) during maximum expiration and inspiration, 
and the pattern of flow reveals the site of airflow obstruc-
tion (see Fig. 19.7). 
Histopathology and cytology
Histopathological examination of biopsies of pleura, 
lymph node or lung often allows a ‘tissue diagnosis’ to 
Investigation of respiratory disease
A
B
Volume
Expiration
Flow
FVC
FEV1
Volume
Inspiration
Time
1 sec
C
Volume
Normal
COPD
Fibrosis
Tracheal
obstruction
4
5
Total lung capacity
Functional residual capacity
Residual volume
19
321
4
Inspiratory capacity
3
2
1
Vital capacity
5
Time
Fig. 19.7 Respiratory function tests in health and disease.  A Volume/time traces from forced expiration in a normal subject, in COPD and in 
fibrosis. COPD causes slow, prolonged and limited exhalation. In fibrosis, forced expiration results in rapid expulsion of a reduced forced vital capacity 
(FVC). Forced expiratory volume (FEV1) is reduced in both diseases but is disproportionately reduced, compared to FVC, in COPD.  B The same data 
plotted as flow/volume loops. In COPD, collapse of intrathoracic airways limits flow, particularly during mid- and late expiration. The blue trace illustrates 
large airway obstruction, which particularly limits peak flow rates.  C Lung volume measurement. Volume/time graphs during quiet breathing with a single 
maximal breath in and out. COPD causes hyperinflation with increased residual volume. Fibrosis causes a proportional reduction in all lung volumes. 
19.4 How to interpret respiratory 
function abnormalities
Asthma
Chronic 
bronchitis
Emphysema
Pulmonary 
fibrosis
FEV1
↓↓
↓↓
↓↓
↓
VC
↓
↓
↓
↓↓
FEV1/VC
↓
↓
↓
→/↑
TLCO
→
→
↓↓
↓↓
KCO
→/↑
→
↓
→/↓
TLC
→/↑
↑
↑↑
↓
RV
→/↑
↑
↑↑
↓
(RV = residual volume; see text for other abbreviations)
Lung volumes
Tidal volume and vital capacity (VC – the maximum 
amount of air that can be expelled from the lungs after 
the deepest possible breath) can be measured by spiro-
metry. Total lung capacity (TLC – the total amount of air 
in the lungs after taking the deepest breath possible) can 
be measured by asking the patient to rebreathe an inert 
non-absorbed gas (usually helium) and recording how 
much the test gas is diluted by lung gas. This measures 
the volume of intrathoracic gas that mixes with tidal 
breaths. Alternatively, lung volume may be measured 
by body plethysmography, which determines the 
pressure/volume relationship of the thorax. This method 
measures total intrathoracic gas volume, including 
poorly ventilated areas such as bullae.
653
Arterial blood gases and oximetry
The measurement of hydrogen ion concentration, PaO2 
and PaCO2, and derived bicarbonate concentration in an 
arterial blood sample is essential to assess the degree 
and type of respiratory failure, and for measuring acid–
base status. This is discussed in detail on pages 663 and 
442. Interpretation of results is made easier by blood  
gas diagrams (Fig. 19.8), which indicate whether any  
acidosis or alkalosis is due to acute or chronic respira-
tory derangements of PaCO2, or to metabolic causes. 
Pulse oximeters with finger or ear probes measure the 
Transfer factor
To measure the capacity of the lungs to exchange gas, 
patients inhale a test mixture of 0.3% carbon monoxide, 
which is taken up avidly by haemoglobin in pulmo-
nary capillaries. After a short breath-hold, the rate of 
disappearance of CO into the circulation is calculated 
from a sample of expirate, and expressed as the TLCO or 
carbon monoxide transfer factor. Helium is also 
included in the test breath to allow calculation of the 
volume of lung examined by the test breath. Transfer 
factor expressed per unit lung volume is termed KCO. 
Common respiratory function abnormalities are sum-
marised in Box 19.4.
RespiRatoRy disease
100
7.0
19.5 Cough
19
5
10
15
20
25
90
Origin
Common causes
Clinical features
[HCO3
–
 ] nmol/L
7.1
80
30
Pharynx
Post-nasal drip
History of chronic 
rhinitis
70
7.2
60
40
Larynx
Laryngitis, tumour, 
whooping cough, 
croup
7.3
50
Acute respiratory acidosis 
Metabolic 
acidosis
Chronic respiratory acidosis
7.4
40
7.5
Voice or swallowing 
altered, harsh or 
painful cough
Paroxysms of cough, 
often associated with 
stridor
30
pH
7.6
Metabolic 
alkalosis
20
Resp. alkalosis
Trachea
Tracheitis
Raw retrosternal pain 
with cough
10
Bronchi
Bronchitis (acute) 
and COPD
Dry or productive, 
worse in mornings
0
[H+] nmol/L
kPa
10
8
6
4
2
12
0
Asthma
Usually dry, worse at 
night
75
60
45
30
15
90
0
mmHg
Arterial PaCO2
Eosinophilic 
bronchitis
Features similar to 
asthma but AHR 
absent
Reference range
Bronchial 
carcinoma
Persistent (often with 
haemoptysis)
95% Confidence limits
Lung 
parenchyma
Tuberculosis
Productive (often 
with haemoptysis)
Pneumonia
Bronchiectasis
Dry initially, 
productive later 
Productive, changes 
in posture induce 
sputum production
Fig. 19.8 Changes in blood [H+], PaCO2 and plasma [HCO3
−] in 
acid–base disorders. The rectangle indicates normal limits for [H+] and 
PaCO2. The bands represent 95% confidence limits of single disturbances 
in human blood. To determine the likely cause of an acid–base disorder, 
plot the values of [H+] and PaCO2 from an arterial blood gas measurement.. 
The diagram indicates whether any acidosis or alkalosis results primarily 
from a respiratory disorder of PaCO2 or from a metabolic derangement. 
Adapted from Flenley 1971 – see p. 732.
Pulmonary 
oedema
Often at night (may 
be productive of 
pink, frothy sputum)
Interstitial fibrosis
Dry and distressing
Drug side-effect
ACE inhibitors
Dry cough
difference in absorbance of light by oxygenated and 
deoxygenated blood to calculate its oxygen saturation 
(SaO2). This allows non-invasive continuous assessment 
of oxygen saturation in patients, which is useful in 
assessing hypoxaemia and its response to therapy.
(ACE = angiotensin-converting enzyme; AHR = airway hyper-reactivity; 
COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
Based on Crompton GK. The respiratory system. In: Munro JF, Campbell 
IW. Macleod’s clinical examination. 10th edn. Edinburgh: Churchill 
Livingstone; 2000 (p. 119); copyright Elsevier.
Exercise tests
Resting measurements may be unhelpful in early disease 
or in patients complaining only of exercise-induced 
symptoms. Exercise testing with spirometry before and 
after can help demonstrate exercise-induced asthma. 
Walk tests include the self-paced 6-minute walk and  
the externally paced incremental ‘shuttle’ test, where 
patients walk at increasing pace between two cones 
10 m apart. These provide simple, repeatable assess-
ments of disability and response to treatment. Cardio-
pulmonary bicycle exercise testing, with measurement 
of metabolic gas exchange, ventilation and ECG changes, 
is useful for quantifying exercise limitation and detect-
ing occult cardiovascular or respiratory limitation in a 
breathless patient.
PRESENTING PROBLEMS IN 
RESPIRATORY DISEASE
occurs in a number of conditions, and it is typically 
induced by changes in air temperature or exposure to 
irritants, such as cigarette smoke or perfumes. The char-
acteristics of cough originating at various levels of the 
respiratory tract are detailed in Box 19.5.
The explosive quality of a normal cough is lost in 
patients with respiratory muscle paralysis or vocal cord 
palsy. Paralysis of a single vocal cord gives rise to  
a prolonged, low-pitched, inefficient ‘bovine’ cough 
accompanied by hoarseness. Coexistence of an inspira-
tory noise (stridor) indicates partial obstruction of a 
major airway (e.g. laryngeal oedema, tracheal tumour, 
scarring, compression or inhaled foreign body) and 
requires urgent investigation and treatment. Sputum 
production is common in patients with acute or chronic 
cough, and its nature and appearance can provide clues 
to the aetiology (p. 644).
Cough
654
Causes of cough
Acute transient cough is most commonly caused by viral 
lower respiratory tract infection, post-nasal drip result-
ing from rhinitis or sinusitis, aspiration of a foreign 
Cough is the most frequent symptom of respiratory 
disease and is caused by stimulation of sensory nerves 
in the mucosa of the pharynx, larynx, trachea and 
bronchi. Acute sensitisation of the normal cough reflex 
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
A
B
Fig. 19.9 Inhaled foreign body.
 A Chest X-ray showing a 
tooth lodged in a main bronchus. 
 B Bronchoscopic appearance of 
inhaled foreign body (tooth) with a 
covering mucous film. 
• causing hypoxia, hypercapnia or acidosis, which 
body, or throat-clearing secondary to laryngitis or  
pharyngitis. When cough occurs in the context of more 
serious diseases, such as pneumonia, aspiration, conges-
tive heart failure or pulmonary embolism, it is usually 
easy to diagnose from other clinical features.
Patients with chronic cough present more of a  
19
stimulate chemoreceptors.
In cardiac failure, pulmonary congestion reduces 
lung compliance and can also obstruct the small airways. 
Reduced cardiac output also limits oxygen supply to the 
skeletal muscles during exercise, causing early lactic aci-
daemia and further stimulating breathing via the central 
chemoreceptors.
Breathlessness and the effects of treatment can be 
quantified using a symptom scale. Patients tend to 
report breathlessness in proportion to the sum of the 
above stimuli to breathe. Individual patients differ 
greatly in the intensity of breathlessness reported for a 
given set of circumstances, but breathlessness scores 
during exercise within individuals are reproducible, and 
can be used to monitor the effects of therapy.
Differential diagnosis
Patients with breathlessness present either with chronic 
exertional symptoms or as an emergency with acute 
breathlessness, when symptoms are prominent even at 
rest. The causes can be classified accordingly (Box 19.6).
Chronic exertional breathlessness
The cause of breathlessness is often apparent from a 
careful clinical history. Key questions include:
challenge, especially when physical examination, chest 
X-ray and lung function studies are normal. In this 
context, it is most often explained by cough-variant 
asthma (where cough may be the principal or exclusive 
clinical manifestation), post-nasal drip secondary to 
nasal or sinus disease, or gastro-oesophageal reflux with 
aspiration. Diagnosis of the latter may require ambula-
tory oesophageal pH monitoring or a prolonged trial of 
anti-reflux therapy (p. 865). Between 10% and 15% of 
patients (particularly women) taking angiotensin-
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors develop a drug-
induced chronic cough. Bordetella pertussis infection in 
adults (p. 682) can also result in protracted cough and 
should be suspected in those in close contact with chil-
dren. While most patients with a bronchogenic carci-
noma have an abnormal chest X-ray on presentation, 
fibreoptic bronchoscopy or thoracic CT is advisable in 
most adults (especially smokers) with otherwise unex-
plained cough of recent onset, as this may reveal a small 
endobronchial tumour or unexpected foreign body (Fig. 
19.9). In a small percentage of patients, dry cough may 
be the presenting feature of interstitial lung disease.
Breathlessness
Breathlessness or dyspnoea can be defined as the feeling 
of an uncomfortable need to breathe. It is unusual among 
sensations, as it has no defined receptors, no localised 
representation in the brain, and multiple causes both in 
health (e.g. exercise) and in diseases of the lungs, heart 
or muscles.
How is your breathing at rest and overnight?
In COPD, there is a fixed, structural limit to maximum 
ventilation, and a tendency for progressive hyperinfla-
tion during exercise. Breathlessness is mainly apparent 
when walking, and patients usually report minimal 
symptoms at rest and overnight. In contrast, patients 
with significant asthma are often woken from their sleep 
by breathlessness with chest tightness and wheeze.
Orthopnoea, however, is common in COPD, as well 
as in heart disease, because airflow obstruction is made 
worse by cranial displacement of the diaphragm by the 
abdominal contents when recumbent, so many patients 
choose to sleep propped up. It may thus not be a useful 
differentiating symptom, unless there is a clear history 
of previous angina or infarction to suggest cardiac 
disease.
Pathophysiology
Stimuli to breathing resulting from disease processes are 
shown in Figure 19.10. Respiratory diseases can stimu-
late breathing and dyspnoea by:
• stimulating intrapulmonary sensory nerves (e.g. 
pneumothorax, interstitial inflammation and 
pulmonary embolus)
• increasing the mechanical load on the respiratory 
655
How much can you do on a good day?
Noting ‘breathless on exertion’ is not enough; the 
approximate distance the patient can walk on the level 
should be documented, along with capacity to climb 
muscles (e.g. airflow obstruction or pulmonary 
fibrosis)
RespiRatoRy disease
19
Breathlessness
Cortical drive
Limbic drives
(emotion)
IX
Central
chemoreceptors
(↓CSF pH)
Carotid body
(↓PaO2, ↑PaCO2)
Spinal
afferents
Vagal lung
afferents
Type II respiratory
failure, 
↑PaCO2 + acidosis
Altered V/Q
Hypoxaemia
Pulmonary
embolus
Airway obstruction
• Asthma
• Emphysema
Interstitial disease
• Inflammation
• Infection
• Fibrosis
Pulmonary
fibrosis
Increased
mechanical
load
Deflation
• Pneumothorax
• Collapse
• Effusion
Fig. 19.10 Respiratory stimuli contributing to breathlessness. Mechanisms by which disease can stimulate the respiratory motor neurons in the 
medulla. Breathlessness is usually felt in proportion to the sum of these stimuli. Further explanation is given on page 543. ( �
�
V / Q  = ventilation/perfusion 
match) 
19.6 Causes of breathlessness
System
Acute dyspnoea
Chronic exertional dyspnoea
Cardiovascular
*Acute pulmonary oedema (p. 543)
Chronic heart failure (p. 543)
Myocardial ischaemia (angina equivalent) (p. 544)
Respiratory
*Acute severe asthma
*Acute exacerbation of COPD
*Pneumothorax
*Pneumonia
*Pulmonary embolus
ARDS
Inhaled foreign body (especially in children)
Lobar collapse
Laryngeal oedema (e.g. anaphylaxis)
*COPD
*Chronic asthma
Bronchial carcinoma
Interstitial lung disease (sarcoidosis, fibrosing alveolitis, 
extrinsic allergic alveolitis, pneumoconiosis)
Chronic pulmonary thromboembolism
Lymphatic carcinomatosis (may cause intolerable 
breathlessness)
Large pleural effusion(s)
Severe anaemia
Obesity
Deconditioning
Others
Metabolic acidosis (e.g. diabetic ketoacidosis, lactic 
acidosis, uraemia, overdose of salicylates, ethylene glycol 
poisoning)
Psychogenic hyperventilation (anxiety or panic-related)
*Denotes a common cause. (ARDS = acute respiratory distress syndrome; COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
656
inclines or stairs. Variability within and between days is 
a hallmark of asthma; in mild asthma, the patient may 
be free of symptoms and signs when well. Gradual, pro-
gressive loss of exercise capacity over months and years, 
with consistent disability over days, is typical of COPD. 
When asthma is suspected, the degree of variability is 
best documented by home peak flow monitoring.
Relentless, progressive breathlessness that is also 
present at rest, often accompanied by a dry cough, sug-
gests interstitial fibrosis. Impaired left ventricular func-
tion can also cause chronic exertional breathlessness, 
cough and wheeze. A history of angina, hypertension or 
myocardial infarction raises the possibility of a cardiac 
cause. This may be confirmed by a displaced apex beat, 
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
R
a raised JVP and cardiac murmurs (although these signs 
can occur in severe cor pulmonale). The chest X-ray may 
show cardiomegaly, and an electrocardiogram (ECG) 
and echocardiogram may provide evidence of left ven-
tricular disease. Measurement of arterial blood gases 
may help, as, in the absence of an intracardiac shunt or 
pulmonary oedema, the PaO2 in cardiac disease is 
normal and the PaCO2 is low or normal.
Did you have breathing problems in 
childhood or at school?
When present, a history of childhood wheeze increases 
the likelihood of asthma, although this history may be 
absent in late-onset asthma. A history of atopic allergy 
also increases the likelihood of asthma.
Fig. 19.11 CT showing retrosternal multinodular goitre (small 
arrow) causing acute severe breathlessness and stridor due to 
tracheal compression (large arrow). 
19
examination will usually suggest a diagnosis which can 
be confirmed by routine investigations, including chest 
X-ray, ECG and arterial blood gases. Specific features 
that aid the diagnosis of the important causes are shown 
in Box 19.8.
Do you have other symptoms along with  
your breathlessness?
Digital or perioral paraesthesiae and a feeling that ‘I 
cannot get a deep enough breath in’ are typical features 
of psychogenic hyperventilation, but this cannot be 
diagnosed until investigations have excluded other 
potential causes. Additional symptoms include light-
headedness, central chest discomfort or even carpopedal 
spasm due to acute respiratory alkalosis. These alarming 
symptoms may provoke further anxiety and exacerbate 
hyperventilation. Psychogenic breathlessness rarely dis-
turbs sleep, frequently occurs at rest, may be provoked 
by stressful situations and may even be relieved by exer-
cise. The Nijmegen questionnaire can be used to score 
some of the typical symptoms of hyperventilation (Box 
19.7). Arterial blood gases show normal PO2, low PCO2 
and alkalosis.
Pleuritic chest pain in a patient with chronic breath-
History
It is important to establish the rate of onset and severity 
of the breathlessness and whether associated cardiovas-
cular symptoms (chest pain, palpitations, sweating and 
nausea) or respiratory symptoms (cough, wheeze, haem-
optysis, stridor – Fig. 19.11) are present. A previous 
history of repeated episodes of left ventricular failure, 
asthma or exacerbations of COPD is valuable. In  
the severely ill patient, it may be necessary to obtain the 
history from accompanying witnesses. In children, the 
possibility of inhalation of a foreign body (see Fig. 19.9) 
or acute epiglottitis should always be considered.
Clinical assessment
The following should be assessed and documented:
• level of consciousness
• degree of central cyanosis
• evidence of anaphylaxis (urticaria or  
lessness, particularly if it occurs in more than one site 
over time, should raise suspicion of thromboembolic 
disease. Thromboembolism may occasionally present as 
chronic breathlessness with no other specific features, 
and should always be considered before a diagnosis of 
psychogenic hyperventilation is made.
Morning headache is an important symptom in 
patients with breathlessness, as it may signal the onset 
of carbon dioxide retention and respiratory failure. This 
is particularly significant in patients with musculoskel-
etal disease impairing respiratory function (e.g. kypho-
scoliosis or muscular dystrophy).
angioedema)
• patency of the upper airway
• ability to speak (in single words or sentences)
• cardiovascular status (heart rate and rhythm,  
Acute severe breathlessness
This is one of the most common and dramatic medical 
emergencies. The history and a rapid but careful 
19.7 Factors suggesting psychogenic 
hyperventilation
• ‘Inability to take a deep breath’
• Frequent sighing/erratic ventilation at rest
• Short breath-holding time in the absence of severe 
respiratory disease
• Difficulty in performing and/or inconsistent spirometry 
measures
• High score (over 26) on Nijmegen questionnaire
• Induction of symptoms during submaximal hyperventilation
• Resting end-tidal CO2 < 4.5%
• Associated digital paraesthesiae
657
blood pressure and degree of peripheral  
perfusion).
Pulmonary oedema is suggested by pink, frothy 
sputum and bi-basal crackles; asthma or COPD by 
wheeze and prolonged expiration; pneumothorax by a 
silent resonant hemithorax; and pulmonary embolus by 
severe breathlessness with normal breath sounds. The 
peak expiratory flow should be measured whenever 
possible. Leg swelling may suggest cardiac failure or,  
if asymmetrical, venous thrombosis. Arterial blood 
gases, a chest X-ray and an ECG should be obtained to 
confirm the clinical diagnosis, and high concentrations 
of oxygen given pending results. Urgent endotracheal 
intubation (p. 194) may become necessary if the con-
scious level declines or if severe respiratory acidosis is 
present.
RespiRatoRy disease
19.8 Differential diagnosis of acute breathlessness
19
Condition
History
Signs
CXR
ABG
ECG
Pulmonary 
oedema
↓PaO2
↓PaCO2
Chest pain, palpitations, 
orthopnoea, cardiac 
history*
Cardiomegaly, 
oedema/pleural 
effusions*
Sinus tachycardia, 
ischaemia*, 
arrhythmia
Central cyanosis, ↑JVP, 
sweating, cool 
extremities, basal 
crackles*
↓PaO2
↓PaCO2
Risk factors, chest pain, 
pleurisy, syncope*, 
dizziness*
Massive 
pulmonary 
embolus
Often normal
Prominent hilar 
vessels, oligaemic 
lung fields*
Sinus tachycardia, 
RBBB, S1Q3T3 
pattern
↑T(V1–V4)
Central cyanosis, ↑JVP*, 
absence of signs in the 
lung*, shock 
(tachycardia, 
hypotension)
Acute severe 
asthma
History of asthma, 
asthma medications, 
wheeze*
Hyperinflation only 
(unless complicated 
by pneumothorax)*
↓PaO2
↓PaCO2 (↑PaCO2 
in extremis)
Sinus tachycardia 
(bradycardia in 
extremis)
Tachycardia, pulsus 
paradoxus, cyanosis 
(late), JVP →*, ↓peak 
flow, wheeze*
Hyperinflation*, 
bullae, complicating 
pneumothorax
Normal, or signs 
of right ventricular 
strain
Acute 
exacerbation 
of COPD
Previous episodes*, 
smoker. If in type II 
respiratory failure, may 
be drowsy
Cyanosis, hyperinflation*, 
signs of CO2 retention 
(flapping tremor, 
bounding pulses)*
↓ or ↓↓PaO2 
↑PaCO2 in type II 
failure ± ↑H+, 
↑HCO3 in chronic 
type II failure
Tachycardia
Pneumonia
Prodromal illness*, 
fever*, rigors*, pleurisy*
Pneumonic 
consolidation*
Fever, confusion, pleural 
rub*, consolidation*, 
cyanosis (if severe)
↓PaO2
↓PaCO2 (↑ in 
extremis)
Metabolic 
acidosis
Normal
PaO2 normal
↓↓PaCO2, ↑H+
Evidence of diabetes 
mellitus or renal 
disease, aspirin or 
ethylene glycol overdose
Fetor (ketones), 
hyperventilation without 
heart or lung signs*, 
dehydration*, air hunger
Normal
PaO2 normal*
↓↓PaCO2, ↓H+*
Psychogenic
Previous episodes, 
digital or perioral 
dysaesthesia
No cyanosis, no heart or 
lung signs, carpopedal 
spasm
*Valuable discriminatory feature. (ABG = arterial blood gases; RBBB = right bundle branch block)
Chest pain
Chest pain is a frequent manifestation of both cardiac  
(p. 539) and respiratory disease (Box 19.9). Pleurisy,  
a sharp chest pain aggravated by deep breathing or 
coughing, is a common feature of pulmonary infection 
or infarction; it may also occur with malignancy. On 
examination, rib movement may be restricted and a 
pleural rub may be present. Malignant involvement of 
the chest wall or ribs can cause gnawing, continuous 
local pain in the chest wall. Central chest pain suggests 
heart disease but also occurs with tumours affecting the 
mediastinum, oesophageal disease (p. 865) or disease  
of the thoracic aorta (p. 603). Massive pulmonary 
embolus may cause ischaemic cardiac pain, as well as 
severe breathlessness. Tracheitis produces raw upper 
retrosternal pain, exacerbated by the accompanying 
cough. Musculoskeletal chest wall pain is usually  
exacerbated by movement and associated with local 
tenderness.
Haemoptysis
658
Coughing up blood, irrespective of the amount, is an 
alarming symptom and patients nearly always seek 
medical advice. Care should be taken to establish that 
it is true haemoptysis and not haematemesis, or gum 
or nose bleeding. Haemoptysis must always be 
assumed to have a serious cause until this is excluded 
(Box 19.10).
Many episodes of haemoptysis remain unexplained, 
even after full investigation, and are likely to be due to 
simple bronchial infection. A history of repeated small 
haemoptysis, or blood-streaking of sputum, is highly 
suggestive of bronchial carcinoma. Fever, night sweats 
and weight loss suggest tuberculosis. Pneumococcal 
pneumonia often causes ‘rusty’-coloured sputum but 
can cause frank haemoptysis, as can all suppurative 
pneumonic infections, including lung abscess (p. 687). 
Bronchiectasis (p. 678) and intracavitary mycetoma  
(p. 698) can cause catastrophic bronchial haemorrhage, 
and in these patients there may be a history of previous 
tuberculosis or pneumonia in early life. Finally, pulmo-
nary thromboembolism is a common cause of haem-
optysis and should always be considered.
Physical examination may reveal additional clues. 
Finger clubbing suggests bronchial carcinoma or bron-
chiectasis; other signs of malignancy, such as cachexia, 
hepatomegaly and lymphadenopathy, should also be 
sought. Fever, pleural rub and signs of consolidation 
occur in pneumonia or pulmonary infarction; a minority 
of patients with pulmonary infarction also have unilat-
eral leg swelling or pain suggestive of deep venous 
thrombosis. Rashes, haematuria and digital infarcts 
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
19.9 Differential diagnosis of chest pain
point to an underlying systemic disease, such as a vas-
culitis, which may be associated with haemoptysis.
Central
Cardiac
• Myocardial ischaemia 
(angina)
• Pericarditis
• Mitral valve prolapse 
syndrome
• Myocardial infarction
• Myocarditis
Aortic
• Aortic dissection
• Aortic aneurysm
• Mallory–Weiss syndrome
Oesophageal
• Oesophagitis
• Oesophageal spasm
Massive pulmonary embolus
Mediastinal
• Tracheitis
• Malignancy
Management
In severe acute haemoptysis, the patient should be 
nursed upright (or on the side of the bleeding, if this is 
known), given high-flow oxygen and resuscitated as 
required. Bronchoscopy in the acute phase is difficult 
and often merely shows blood throughout the bronchial 
tree. If radiology shows an obvious central cause, then 
rigid bronchoscopy under general anaesthesia may 
allow intervention to stop bleeding; however, the  
source often cannot be visualised. Intubation with a 
divided endotracheal tube may allow protected ventila-
tion of the unaffected lung to stabilise the patient. Bron-
chial arteriography and embolisation (Fig. 19.12), or 
even emergency surgery, can be life-saving in the acute 
situation.
Anxiety/emotion1
In the vast majority of cases, however, the haem-
Peripheral
optysis itself is not life-threatening and a logical sequence 
of investigations can be followed:
• chest X-ray, which may provide evidence of a 
19
localised lesion, including tumour (malignant or 
benign), pneumonia, mycetoma or tuberculosis
Lungs/pleura
• Pulmonary infarct
• Pneumonia
• Pneumothorax
• Malignancy
• Tuberculosis
• Connective tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal2
• full blood count (FBC) and clotting screen
• bronchoscopy after acute bleeding has settled, 
• Intercostal muscle injury
• Epidemic myalgia 
• Osteoarthritis
• Rib fracture/injury
• Costochondritis (Tietze’s 
(Bornholm disease)
which may reveal a central bronchial carcinoma 
(not visible on the chest X-ray) and permit biopsy 
and tissue diagnosis
syndrome)
• CTPA, which may reveal underlying pulmonary 
Neurological
• Prolapsed intervertebral 
disc
• Herpes zoster
• Thoracic outlet syndrome
thromboembolic disease or alternative causes not 
seen on the chest X-ray (e.g. pulmonary 
arteriovenous malformation or small or hidden 
tumours).
1May also cause peripheral chest pain. 2Can sometimes cause central chest 
pain.
19.10 Causes of haemoptysis
• Bronchial adenoma
• Foreign body
Bronchial disease
• Carcinoma*
• Bronchiectasis*
• Acute bronchitis*
Parenchymal disease
• Tuberculosis*
• Suppurative pneumonia
• Parasites (e.g. hydatid 
• Lung abscess
• Trauma
• Actinomycosis
• Mycetoma
disease, flukes)
Lung vascular disease
• Pulmonary infarction*
• Goodpasture’s syndrome 
• Polyarteritis nodosa
• Idiopathic pulmonary 
(p. 497)
haemosiderosis
Cardiovascular disease
• Acute left ventricular 
failure*
• Mitral stenosis
• Aortic aneurysm
Blood disorders
• Leukaemia
• Haemophilia
• Anticoagulants
*More common causes.
Fig. 19.12 Bronchial artery angiography. An angiography catheter 
has been passed via the femoral artery and aorta into an abnormally 
dilated right bronchial artery (arrows). Contrast is seen flowing into the 
lung. This patient had post-tuberculous bronchiectasis and presented with 
massive haemoptysis. Bronchial artery embolisation was successfully 
performed. 
659
RespiRatoRy disease
The incidental pulmonary nodule
19
biopsy under ultrasound or CT guidance. Needle biopsy 
may be complicated by pneumothorax in around 20%  
of cases and although only 3% require intercostal drain-
age, this technique should only be contemplated in indi-
viduals with an FEV1 of more than 35% predicted. 
Haemorrhage into the lung or pleural space, air embo-
lism and tumour seeding are rare but recognised 
complications.
PET scanning provides useful information about 
The incidental finding of a pulmonary nodule (a rounded 
opacity measuring up to 3 cm in diameter) is common, 
particularly with the widespread use of thoracic  
CT scanning (Fig. 19.13). The differential diagnosis  
is extensive (Box 19.11), and whilst the majority are 
benign, it is important to identify a potentially treatable 
malignancy.
A lesion may be confidently described as benign if it 
appears unchanged over 2 years. If previous images are 
available and this can be established, no further investi-
gation may be necessary. Otherwise, the likelihood of 
malignancy is assessed by considering the characteris-
tics of the patient, including age, smoking history and 
any history of prior malignancy, and the appearance of 
the nodule in terms of its size, margin, density and loca-
tion (Box 19.12). Further investigation is required in the 
majority of cases.
Pulmonary nodules are invariably beyond the vision 
of the bronchoscope and, with the notable exception  
of pulmonary infection (e.g. tuberculosis), bronchos-
copy is usually unrewarding as the yield from blind 
washings is low. Endoscopic bronchoscopic ultrasound 
may overcome this but, for the time being, tissue is  
most commonly obtained using percutaneous needle 
nodules of at least 1 cm in diameter, in which the pres-
ence of high metabolic activity is strongly suggestive of 
malignancy, while an inactive ‘cold’ nodule is consistent 
with benign disease. False-positive results may occur 
with some infectious or inflammatory nodules, and 
false-negative results with neuro-endocrine tumours 
and bronchiolo-alveolar cell carcinomas. Detection of 
neuro-endocrine tumours may be improved by the use 
of 68Ga-Dotatoc in place of FDG.
Where tissue biopsy is contraindicated and the lesion 
is too small to be confidently assessed by PET, interval 
thoracic CT scanning may be considered. The period 
between scans is based upon the average tumour dou-
bling time (Box 19.13). Changes may be difficult to assess 
visually and specially adapted computer programs 
allow more detailed topographical assessment. However, 
the risks of radiation exposure inherent in this approach, 
and the fact that further nodules are likely to be detected, 
need to be considered. In some circumstances, if the 
nodule is highly likely to be malignant and the patient 
is fit for surgery, the best option may be to proceed to 
surgical resection.
19.12 Clinical and radiographic features 
distinguishing benign from malignant nodules
Feature
Risk of malignancy
Patient characteristics
Age
Increases with age and is uncommon  
< age of 40
Smoking history
Increases in proportion to duration and 
amount smoked
Other
Increased by history of lung cancer in 
first-degree relative, and by exposure to 
asbestos, silica, uranium and radon
Fig. 19.13 Thoracic CT scan showing a solitary pulmonary 
nodule identified in the right upper lobe (arrow). 
Characteristics of nodule
Size
Nearly all > 3 cm but fewer than 1% 
< 4 mm are malignant
Margin
Usually smooth in benign lesions
Spiculated suggests malignancy
19.11 Causes of pulmonary nodules
Common causes
• Bronchial carcinoma
• Single metastasis
• Localised pneumonia
• Lung abscess
• Tuberculoma
• Pulmonary infarct
Uncommon causes
Calcification or fat
Laminated or central deposition of 
calcification suggests granuloma
‘Popcorn’ pattern is suggestive of 
hamartoma
Fat may suggest hamartoma or lipoid 
granuloma
Location
70% of lung cancers occur in upper  
lobes
Benign lesions are equally distributed 
throughout upper and lower lobes
• Pulmonary haematoma
• Wegener’s granuloma
• ‘Pseudotumour’ – fluid 
collection in a fissure
• Aspergilloma (usually 
surrounded by air ‘halo’)
Note Linear or sheet-like lung opacities are unlikely to represent neoplasms 
and do not require follow-up. Some nodular opacities may be sufficiently 
typical of scarring that follow-up is not warranted.
Adapted from Fleischer Society Statement. Radiology 2005; 237:395–400.
• Benign tumours
• Lymphoma
• Arteriovenous malformation
• Hydatid cyst (p. 380)
• Bronchogenic cyst
• Rheumatoid nodule
• Pulmonary sequestration
660
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
19.14 Causes of pleural effusion
19.13 Recommendations for follow-up of 
incidental nodules smaller than 8 mm1
Common causes
• Pneumonia (‘para-
Nodule size (mm)
(average of 
length and width)
No or minimal 
history of smoking/
other risk factors
Smoker/other  
risk factors
pneumonic effusion’)
• Cardiac failure*
• Subdiaphragmatic 
disorders (subphrenic 
abscess, pancreatitis etc.)
• Tuberculosis
• Pulmonary infarction*
• Malignant disease
≤ 4
No follow-up 
needed2
Follow-up CT at 
12 mths; if 
unchanged, no 
further follow-up
Uncommon causes
• Hypoproteinaemia* 
• Acute rheumatic fever
• Meigs’ syndrome (ovarian 
(nephrotic syndrome, liver 
failure, malnutrition)
4–6
Follow-up at 
12 mths; if 
unchanged, no 
further follow-up
Initial follow-up CT 
at 6–12 mths, then 
at 18–24 mths if 
no change
• Connective tissue diseases* 
(particularly systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE) and 
rheumatoid arthritis)
tumour plus pleural 
effusion)
• Myxoedema*
• Uraemia*
• Asbestos-related benign 
6–8
Initial follow-up CT 
at 6–12 mths, then 
at 18–24 mths if 
no change
Initial follow-up CT 
at 3–6 mths, then 
at 9–12 mths if no 
change
• Post-myocardial infarction 
pleural effusion
syndrome
As for low-risk 
patient
*May cause bilateral effusions.
19
> 8
Follow-up CT at 
around 3, 9 and 
24 mths, dynamic 
contrast-enhanced 
CT, PET and/or 
biopsy
1Excludes younger patients, and those with unexplained fever or known/
suspected malignant disease.
2Very low risk of malignancy (< 1%). Non-solid (ground glass) or partly solid 
nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent adenocarcinoma.
Adapted from Radiology 2005; 237:395–400.
Pleural effusion
wall. In fact, fluid surrounds the whole lung at this level, 
but casts a radiological shadow only where the X-ray 
beam passes tangentially across the fluid against the 
lateral chest wall. Around 200 mL of fluid is required  
in order for it to be detectable on a PA chest X-ray. Previ-
ous scarring or adhesions in the pleural space can cause 
localised effusions. Pleural fluid localised below the 
lower lobe (‘subpulmonary effusion’) simulates an ele-
vated hemidiaphragm. Pleural fluid localised within an 
oblique fissure may produce a rounded opacity that may 
be mistaken for a tumour.
Ultrasound is more accurate than plain chest X-ray 
for determining the presence of fluid. A clear hypo-
echoic space is consistent with a transudate and the pres-
ence of moving floating densities suggests an exudate. 
The presence of septation suggests an evolving empyema 
or resolving haemothorax. CT scanning is indicated 
where malignant disease is suspected.
The accumulation of serous fluid within the pleural 
space is termed pleural effusion. The accumulation of 
frank pus is termed empyema (p. 662), that of blood is 
haemothorax, and that of chyle is a chylothorax. In 
general, pleural fluid accumulates as a result of either 
increased hydrostatic pressure or decreased osmotic 
pressure (‘transudative’ effusion, as seen in cardiac, liver 
or renal failure), or from increased microvascular pres-
sure due to disease of the pleura or injury in the adjacent 
lung (‘exudative’ effusion). The causes of the majority of 
pleural effusions (Boxes 19.14 and 19.15) are identified 
by a thorough history, examination and relevant 
investigations.
Clinical assessment
Symptoms (pain on inspiration and coughing) and signs 
of pleurisy (a pleural rub) often precede the develop-
ment of an effusion, especially in patients with under-
lying pneumonia, pulmonary infarction or connective 
tissue disease. However, when breathlessness is the  
only symptom, depending on the size and rate of accu-
mulation, the onset may be insidious. The physical signs 
are detailed on page 645.
661
Investigations
Radiological investigations
The classical appearance of pleural fluid on the erect PA 
chest film is of a curved shadow at the lung base, blunt-
ing the costophrenic angle and ascending towards the 
axilla (p. 645). Fluid appears to track up the lateral chest 
Pleural aspiration and biopsy
In some conditions (e.g. left ventricular failure), it should 
not be necessary to sample fluid unless atypical features 
are present; appropriate treatment should be adminis-
tered and the effusion re-evaluated. However, in most 
other circumstances, diagnostic sampling is required. 
Simple aspiration provides information on the colour 
and texture of fluid and these alone may immediately 
suggest an empyema or chylothorax. The presence of 
blood is consistent with pulmonary infarction or malig-
nancy, but may result from a traumatic tap. Biochemical 
analysis allows classification into transudate and exu-
dates (Box 19.16) and Gram stain may suggest para-
pneumonic effusion. The predominant cell type provides 
useful information and cytological examination is essen-
tial. A low pH suggests infection but may also be  
seen in rheumatoid arthritis, ruptured oesophagus or 
advanced malignancy.
Ultrasound- or CT-guided pleural biopsy provides 
tissue for pathological and microbiological analysis. 
Where necessary, video-assisted thoracoscopy allows 
visualisaton of the pleura and direct guidance of a 
biopsy.
RespiRatoRy disease
19.15 Pleural effusion: main causes and features
19
Cause
Appearance of fluid
Type of fluid
Predominant cells in fluid
Other diagnostic features
Tuberculosis
Serous, usually 
amber-coloured
Exudate
Lymphocytes (occasionally 
polymorphs)
Positive tuberculin test
Isolation of M. tuberculosis from 
pleural fluid (20%)
Positive pleural biopsy (80%)
Raised adenosine deaminase
Positive pleural biopsy (40%)
Evidence of malignancy elsewhere
Malignant disease
Serous, often 
blood-stained
Exudate
Serosal cells and 
lymphocytes
Often clumps of  
malignant cells
Cardiac failure
Serous, straw-coloured
Transudate
Few serosal cells
Other signs of cardiac failure
Response to diuretics
Pulmonary 
infarction
Serous or blood-stained
Exudate (rarely 
transudate)
Red blood cells
Eosinophils
Evidence of pulmonary infarction
Obvious source of embolism
Factors predisposing to venous 
thrombosis
Rheumatoid 
disease
Serous
Turbid if chronic
Exudate
Lymphocytes (occasionally 
polymorphs)
Rheumatoid arthritis: rheumatoid 
factor and anti-CCP antibodies
Cholesterol in chronic effusion; very 
low glucose in pleural fluid
SLE
Serous
Exudate
Lymphocytes and serosal 
cells
Other signs of SLE
Antinuclear factor or anti-DNA 
positive
Acute pancreatitis
Serous or blood-stained
Exudate
No cells predominate
Higher amylase in pleural fluid than 
in serum
Obstruction of 
thoracic duct
Milky
Chyle
None
Chylomicrons
(anti-CCP = anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide; SLE = systemic lupus erythematosus)
19.16 Light’s criteria for distinguishing 
pleural transudate from exudate
Exudate is likely if one or more of the following criteria are met:
• Pleural fluid protein : serum protein ratio > 0.5
• Pleural fluid LDH : serum LDH ratio > 0.6
• Pleural fluid LDH > two-thirds of the upper limit of normal 
serum LDH
(LDH = lactate dehydrogenase)
large numbers. An empyema may involve the whole 
pleural space or only part of it (‘loculated’ or ‘encysted’ 
empyema) and is usually unilateral. It is always second-
ary to infection in a neighbouring structure, usually the 
lung, most commonly due to the bacterial pneumonias 
and tuberculosis. Over 40% of patients with community-
acquired pneumonia develop an associated pleural  
effusion (‘para-pneumonic’ effusion) and about 15% of 
these become secondarily infected. Other causes are 
infection of a haemothorax following trauma or surgery, 
oesophageal rupture, and rupture of a subphrenic 
abscess through the diaphragm.
Both pleural surfaces are covered with a thick, 
shaggy, inflammatory exudate. The pus in the pleural 
space is often under considerable pressure, and if the 
condition is not adequately treated, pus may rupture 
into a bronchus, causing a bronchopleural fistula and 
pyopneumothorax, or track through the chest wall with 
the formation of a subcutaneous abscess or sinus, 
so-called empyema necessitans.
Management
Therapeutic aspiration may be required to palliate 
breathlessness but removing more than 1.5 L at a time 
is associated with a small risk of re-expansion pulmo-
nary oedema. An effusion should never be drained to 
dryness before establishing a diagnosis, as biopsy may 
be precluded until further fluid accumulates. Treatment 
of the underlying cause – for example, heart failure, 
pneumonia, pulmonary embolism or subphrenic abscess 
– will often be followed by resolution of the effusion. 
The management of pleural effusion in pneumonia, 
tuberculosis and malignancy is dealt with below.
662
Empyema
This is a collection of pus in the pleural space, which 
may be as thin as serous fluid or so thick that it is impos-
sible to aspirate, even through a wide-bore needle. 
Microscopically, neutrophil leucocytes are present in 
Clinical assessment
An empyema should be suspected in patients with pul-
monary infection if there is severe pleuritic chest pain or 
persisting or recurrent pyrexia, despite appropriate anti-
biotic treatment. In other cases, the primary infection 
may be so mild that it passes unrecognised and the first 
definite clinical features are due to the empyema itself. 
Once an empyema has developed, systemic features are 
prominent (Box 19.17).
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
19.17 Clinical features of empyema
Systemic features
• Pyrexia, usually high and remittent
• Rigors, sweating, malaise and weight loss
• Polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, high CRP
Local features
• Pleural pain; breathlessness; cough and sputum, usually 
because of underlying lung disease; copious purulent sputum 
if empyema ruptures into a bronchus (bronchopleural fistula)
• Clinical signs of pleural effusion
Fig. 19.15 Pleural ultrasound showing septation. 
19
Fig. 19.14 Chest X-ray showing a ‘D’-shaped shadow in the left 
mid-zone, consistent with an empyema. In this case, an intercostal 
chest drain has been inserted but the loculated collection of pus remains. 
can only occur if re-expansion of the compressed lung  
is secured at an early stage by removal of all the pus 
from the pleural space. When the pus is sufficiently  
thin, this is most easily achieved by the insertion of a 
wide-bore intercostal tube into the most dependent part 
of the empyema space. If the initial aspirate reveals 
turbid fluid or frank pus, or if loculations are seen on 
ultrasound, the tube should be put on suction (−5 to 
−10 cm H2O) and flushed regularly with 20 mL normal 
saline. If the organism causing the empyema can be 
identified, the appropriate antibiotic should be given  
for 2–4 weeks. Empirical antibiotic treatment (e.g. intra-
venous co-amoxiclav or cefuroxime with metronidazole) 
should be used if the organism is unknown. Intrapleural 
fibrinolytic therapy is of no benefit.
An empyema can often be aborted if these measures 
are started early, but if the intercostal tube is not provid-
ing adequate drainage – for example, when the pus is 
thick or loculated, surgical intervention is required to 
clear the empyema cavity of pus and break down any 
adhesions. Surgical ‘decortication’ of the lung may also 
be required if gross thickening of the visceral pleura is 
preventing re-expansion of the lung. Surgery is also nec-
essary if a bronchopleural fistula develops.
Despite the widespread availability of antibiotics that 
are effective against pneumonia, empyema remains a 
significant cause of morbidity and mortality.
Respiratory failure
The term ‘respiratory failure’ is used when pulmonary 
gas exchange fails to maintain normal arterial oxygen 
and carbon dioxide levels. Its classification into types I 
and II is defined by the absence or presence of hyper-
capnia (raised PaCO2).
Investigations
Chest X-ray appearances may be indistinguishable from 
those of pleural effusion, although pleural adhesions 
may confine the empyema to form a ‘D’-shaped shadow 
against the inside of the chest wall (Fig. 19.14). When air 
is present as well as pus (pyopneumothorax), a horizon-
tal ‘fluid level’ marks the air/liquid interface. Ultrasound 
shows the position of the fluid, the extent of pleural 
thickening and whether fluid is in a single collection or 
multiloculated, containing fibrin and debris (Fig. 19.15). 
CT provides information on the pleura, underlying lung 
parenchyma and patency of the major bronchi.
Ultrasound or CT is used to identify the optimal site 
for aspiration, which is best performed using a wide-
bore needle. If the fluid is thick and turbid pus, empyema 
is confirmed. Other features suggesting empyema are  
a fluid glucose of less than 3.3 mmol/L (60 mg/dL), 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) of more than 1000 U/L,  
or a fluid pH of less than 7.0 (H+ over 100 nmol/L). 
However, pH measurement should be avoided if pus is 
thick, as it damages blood gas machines. The pus is 
frequently sterile on culture if antibiotics have already 
been given. The distinction between tuberculous and 
non-tuberculous disease can be difficult and often 
requires pleural biopsy, histology and culture.
663
Pathophysiology
When disease impairs ventilation of part of a lung (e.g. 
in asthma or pneumonia), perfusion of that region 
results in hypoxic and CO2-laden blood entering the pul-
monary veins. Increased ventilation of neighbouring 
regions of normal lung can increase CO2 excretion, cor-
recting arterial CO2 to normal, but cannot augment 
oxygen uptake because the haemoglobin flowing 
through these regions is already fully saturated. Admix-
ture of blood from the underventilated and normal 
regions thus results in hypoxia with normocapnia, 
Management
An empyema will only heal if infection is eradicated  
and the empyema space is obliterated, allowing apposi-
tion of the visceral and parietal pleural layers. This  
RespiRatoRy disease
19.18 How to interpret blood gas abnormalities in respiratory failure
19
Type I
Type II
Hypoxia (PaO2 < 8.0 kPa (60 mmHg))
Normal or low PaCO2 (< 6.6 kPa (50 mmHg))
Hypoxia (PaO2 < 8.0 kPa (60 mmHg))
Raised PaCO2 (> 6.6 kPa (50 mmHg))
Acute
Chronic
Acute
Chronic
H+
→
→
↑
→ or ↑
Bicarbonate
→
→
→
↑
COPD
Lung fibrosis
Lymphangitis 
carcinomatosa
Right-to-left shunts
COPD
Sleep apnoea
Kyphoscoliosis
Myopathies/muscular dystrophy
Ankylosing spondylitis
Causes
Acute asthma
Pulmonary oedema
Pneumonia
Lobar collapse
Pneumothorax
Pulmonary embolus
ARDS
Acute severe asthma
Acute exacerbation of COPD
Upper airway obstruction
Acute neuropathies/paralysis
Narcotic drugs
Primary alveolar hypoventilation
Flail chest injury
(ARDS = acute respiratory distress syndrome; COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
which is called ‘type I respiratory failure’. Diseases 
causing this include all those that impair ventilation 
locally with sparing of other regions (Box 19.18).
Arterial hypoxia with hypercapnia (type II respira-
tory failure) is seen in conditions that cause generalised, 
severe ventilation–perfusion mismatch, leaving insuffi-
cient normal lung to correct PaCO2, or a disease that 
reduces total ventilation. The latter includes not just  
diseases of the lung but also disorders affecting any 
part of the neuromuscular mechanism of ventilation  
(see Box 19.18).
with the trachea deviated away from a silent and reso-
nant hemithorax are likely to have tension pneumotho-
rax, and air should be aspirated from the pleural space 
and a chest drain inserted as soon as possible. Patients 
with generalised wheeze, scanty breath sounds bilater-
ally or a history of asthma or COPD should be treated 
with nebulised salbutamol 2.5 mg with oxygen, repeated 
until bronchospasm is relieved. Failure to respond to 
initial treatment, declining conscious level and worsen-
ing respiratory acidosis (H+ > 50 nmol/L (pH < 7.3), 
PaCO2 > 6.6 kPa (50 mmHg)) on blood gases are all indi-
cations that supported ventilation is required (p. 193).
A small percentage of patients with severe chronic 
COPD and type II respiratory failure develop abnormal 
tolerance to raised PaCO2 and may become dependent 
on hypoxic drive to breathe. In these patients only, lower 
concentrations of oxygen (24–28% by Venturi mask) 
should be used to avoid precipitating worsening respira-
tory depression (see below). In all cases, regular moni-
toring of arterial blood gases is important to assess 
progress.
Patients with acute type II respiratory failure who 
have reduced drive or conscious level may be suffering 
from sedative poisoning, CO2 narcosis or a primary 
failure of neurological drive (e.g. following intracerebral 
haemorrhage or head injury). History from a witness 
may be invaluable, and reversal of specific drugs with 
(for example) opiate antagonists is occasionally success-
ful, but should not delay intubation and supported 
mechanical ventilation in appropriate cases.
664
Management of acute  
respiratory failure
Prompt diagnosis and management of the underlying 
cause is crucial. In type I respiratory failure, high con-
centrations of oxygen (40–60% by mask) will usually 
relieve hypoxia by increasing the alveolar PO2 in poorly 
ventilated lung units. Occasionally, however (e.g. severe 
pneumonia affecting several lobes), mechanical ventila-
tion may be needed to relieve hypoxia. Patients who 
need high concentrations of oxygen for more than a few 
hours should receive humidified oxygen.
Acute type II respiratory failure is an emergency 
requiring immediate intervention. It is useful to distin-
guish between patients with high ventilatory drive 
(rapid respiratory rate and accessory muscle recruit-
ment) who cannot move sufficient air, and those with 
reduced or inadequate respiratory effort. In the former, 
particularly if inspiratory stridor is present, acute upper 
airway obstruction from foreign body inhalation or 
laryngeal obstruction (angioedema, carcinoma or vocal 
cord paralysis) must be considered, as the Heimlich 
manœuvre (p. 728), immediate intubation or emergency 
tracheostomy may be life-saving.
More commonly, the problem is in the lungs, with 
severe generalised bronchial obstruction from COPD  
or asthma, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
arising from a variety of insults (p. 191), or occasionally 
tension pneumothorax (p. 728). In all such cases, high-
concentration (e.g. 60%) oxygen should be adminis-
tered, pending a rapid examination of the respiratory 
system and measurement of arterial blood gases. Patients 
Chronic and ‘acute on chronic’ 
type II respiratory failure
The most common cause of chronic type II respiratory 
failure is severe COPD. Although PaCO2 may be persis-
tently raised, there is no persisting acidaemia because  
the kidneys retain bicarbonate, correcting arterial pH to 
normal. This ‘compensated’ pattern, which may also 
occur in chronic neuromuscular disease or kyphoscolio-
sis, is maintained until there is a further acute illness (see 
Box 19.18), such as an exacerbation of COPD which pre-
cipitates an episode of ‘acute on chronic’ respiratory 
failure, with acidaemia and initial respiratory distress 
Presenting problems in respiratory disease
followed by drowsiness and eventually coma. These 
patients have lost their chemo-sensitivity to elevated 
PaCO2, and so they may paradoxically depend on 
hypoxia for respiratory drive, and are at risk of respira-
tory depression if given high concentrations of oxygen 
– for example, during ambulance transfers or in emer-
gency departments. Moreover, in contrast to acute severe 
asthma, some patients with ‘acute on chronic’ type II 
respiratory failure due to COPD may not be distressed, 
despite being critically ill with severe hypoxaemia, 
hypercapnia and acidaemia. While the physical signs of 
CO2 retention (confusion, flapping tremor, bounding 
pulses and so on) can be helpful if present, they may not 
be, so arterial blood gases are mandatory in the assess-
ment of initial severity and response to treatment.
Immediate treatment is shown in Box 19.19. Patients 
who are conscious and have adequate respiratory drive 
may benefit from non-invasive ventilation (NIV), which 
has been shown to reduce the need for intubation and 
shorten hospital stay. Patients who are drowsy and have 
low respiratory drive require an urgent decision regard-
ing intubation and ventilation, as this is likely to be the 
only effective treatment, even though weaning off the 
ventilator may be difficult in severe disease. The deci-
sion is challenging, and important factors to consider 
include patient and family wishes, presence of a poten-
tially remediable precipitating condition, prior func-
tional capacity and quality of life. The various types of 
non-invasive (via a face or nasal mask) or invasive  
(via an endotracheal tube) ventilation are detailed on 
pages 193–196.
Respiratory stimulant drugs, such as doxapram, tend 
to cause unacceptable distress due to increased dys-
pnoea, and have been largely superseded by intubation 
and mechanical ventilation in patients with CO2 narco-
sis, as they provide only minor and transient improve-
ments in arterial blood gases.
19
Management
The principal aims of treatment in acute on chronic type 
II respiratory failure are to achieve a safe PaO2 (> 7.0 kPa 
(52 mmHg)) without increasing PaCO2 and acidosis, 
while identifying and treating the precipitating condi-
tion. In these patients, it is not necessary to achieve a 
normal PaO2; even a small increase will often have 
a greatly beneficial effect on tissue oxygen delivery, 
since their PaO2 values are often on the steep part of 
the oxygen saturation curve (p. 184). The risks of wors-
ening hypercapnia and coma must be balanced against 
those of severe hypoxaemia, which include potentially 
fatal arrhythmias or severe cerebral complications. 
19.19 Assessment and management of ‘acute on 
chronic’ type II respiratory failure
Initial assessment
Patient may not appear distressed, despite being critically ill
• Conscious level (response to commands, ability to cough)
• CO2 retention (warm periphery, bounding pulses, flapping 
tremor)
• Airways obstruction (wheeze, prolonged expiration, 
hyperinflation, intercostal indrawing, pursed lips)
• Cor pulmonale (peripheral oedema, raised JVP, 
hepatomegaly, ascites)
Home ventilation for chronic  
respiratory failure
NIV is of great value in the long-term treatment of res-
piratory failure due to spinal deformity, neuromuscular 
disease and central alveolar hypoventilation. Some 
patients with advanced lung disease, e.g. cystic fibrosis, 
also benefit from NIV for respiratory failure. In these 
conditions, the onset of type II respiratory failure can  
be very gradual. Morning headache (due to elevated 
PaCO2) and fatigue are common symptoms but, in many 
cases, the diagnosis is only revealed by sleep studies or 
morning blood gas analysis. In the initial stages, ventila-
tion is insufficient for metabolic needs only during sleep, 
when there is a physiological decline in ventilatory 
drive. Over time, however, CO2 retention becomes 
chronic, with renal compensation of acidosis. Treatment 
by home-based NIV overnight is often sufficient to 
restore the daytime PCO2 to normal, and to relieve 
fatigue and headache. In advanced disease (e.g. muscu-
lar dystrophies or cystic fibrosis), daytime NIV may also 
be required.
• Background functional status and quality of life
• Signs of precipitating cause (see Box 19.17)
Investigations
• Arterial blood gases (severity of hypoxaemia, hypercapnia, 
acidaemia, bicarbonate)
• Chest X-ray
Lung transplantation
Lung transplantation is an established treatment for 
carefully selected patients with advanced lung disease 
unresponsive 
to 
medical 
treatment 
(Box 
19.20). 
19.20 Indications for lung transplantation
Management
• Maintenance of airway
• Treatment of specific precipitating cause
• Frequent physiotherapy ± pharyngeal suction
• Nebulised bronchodilators
• Controlled oxygen therapy
• Langerhans cell 
histiocytosis (p. 715)
• Lymphangioleiomyomatosis 
Start with 24% Venturi mask
Aim for a PaO2 > 7 kPa (52 mmHg) (a PaO2 < 5 
(37 mmHg) is dangerous)
Parenchymal lung disease
• Cystic fibrosis
• Emphysema
• Pulmonary fibrosis
• Obliterative bronchiolitis
(p. 715)
• Antibiotics if evidence of infection
• Diuretics if evidence of fluid overload
Pulmonary vascular disease
• Primary pulmonary 
hypertension
• Veno-occlusive disease
• Eisenmenger’s syndrome 
Progress
• If PaCO2 continues to rise or a safe PaO2 cannot be achieved 
• Thromboembolic pulmonary 
(p. 631)
without severe hypercapnia and acidaemia, mechanical 
ventilatory support may be required
hypertension
665
RespiRatoRy disease
19
but variable airflow obstruction within the lung  
that is often reversible, either spontaneously or with 
treatment.
Epidemiology
The prevalence of asthma increased steadily over the 
latter part of the last century, first in the developed and 
then in the developing world (Fig. 19.16). Current esti-
mates suggest that asthma affects 300 million people 
worldwide, with a predicted additional 100 million 
people affected by 2025. The socio-economic impact is 
enormous, as poor control leads to days lost from school 
or work, unscheduled health-care visits and hospital 
admissions.
Although the development and course of the disease, 
and the response to treatment, are influenced by genetic 
determinants, the rapid rise in prevalence implies that 
environmental factors are critically important in the 
development and expression of the disease. To date, 
studies have explored the potential role of indoor and 
outdoor allergens, microbial exposure, diet, vitamins, 
breastfeeding, tobacco smoke, air pollution and obesity 
but no clear consensus has emerged.
Single-lung transplantation may be used for selected 
patients with advanced emphysema or lung fibrosis. 
This is contraindicated in patients with chronic bilateral 
pulmonary infection, such as cystic fibrosis and bron-
chiectasis, because the transplanted lung is vulnerable to 
cross-infection in the context of post-transplant immuno-
suppression and for these individuals bilateral lung 
transplantation is the standard procedure. Combined 
heart–lung transplantation is still occasionally needed 
for patients with advanced congenital heart disease such 
as Eisenmenger’s syndrome, and is preferred by some 
surgeons for the treatment of primary pulmonary hyper-
tension unresponsive to medical therapy.
The prognosis following lung transplantation is 
improving steadily with modern immunosuppressive 
drugs: over 50% 10-year survival in some UK centres. 
However, chronic rejection resulting in obliterative 
bronchiolitis continues to afflict some recipients. Cortico-
steroids are used to manage acute rejection, but drugs 
that inhibit cell-mediated immunity specifically, such as 
ciclosporin, mycophenolate and tacrolimus (p. 94), are 
used to prevent chronic rejection. Azithromycin, statins 
and total lymphoid irradiation are employed to treat 
obliterative bronchiolitis, but late organ failure remains 
a significant problem.
The major factor limiting the availability of lung 
transplantation is the shortage of donor lungs. To 
improve organ availability, techniques to recondition 
the lungs in vitro after removal from the donor are being 
developed.
OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASES
Asthma
Pathophysiology
Airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) – the tendency for 
airways to narrow excessively in response to triggers 
that have little or no effect in normal individuals – is inte-
gral to the diagnosis of asthma and appears to be related, 
although not exclusively, to airway inflammation (Fig. 
19.17). Other factors likely to be important in the behav-
iour of airway smooth muscle include the degree of 
airway narrowing and neurogenic mechanisms.
The relationship between atopy (the propensity to 
produce IgE) and asthma is well established, and in 
many individuals there is a clear relationship between 
sensitisation and allergen exposure, as demonstrated by 
skin prick reactivity or elevated serum specific IgE. 
Common examples of allergens include house dust 
mites, pets such as cats and dogs, pests such as cock-
roaches, and fungi. Inhalation of an allergen into the 
airway is followed by an early and late-phase broncho-
constrictor response (Fig. 19.18). Allergic mechanisms  
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the 
airways, in which many cells and cellular elements play 
a role. The chronic inflammation is associated with 
airway hyper-responsiveness that leads to recurrent epi-
sodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness and 
coughing, particularly at night and in the early morning. 
These episodes are usually associated with widespread 
≥10.1
7.6–10.0
5.1–7.5
2.5–5.0
0–2.5
No standardised
data available
Fig. 19.16 World map showing the prevalence of clinical asthma (proportion of population (%)). From WHO – see p. 732; data drawn from 
the European Community Respiratory Health Study (ECRHS) and the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC).
666
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
Severe asthma
Moderate asthma
Mild asthma
Normal
0
10
20
of an array of cytokines, chemokines and growth factors. 
Examination of the inflammatory cell profile in induced 
sputum samples demonstrates that, although asthma is 
predominantly characterised by airway eosinophilia, 
neutrophilic inflammation predominates in some 
patients, while, in others, scant inflammation is observed: 
so-called ‘pauci-granulocytic’ asthma.
With increasing severity and chronicity of the disease, 
remodelling of the airway may occur, leading to fibrosis 
of the airway wall, fixed narrowing of the airway and a 
reduced response to bronchodilator medication.
30
Reduction in FEV1 (%)
40
Increasing concentration of histamine
19
Fig. 19.17 Airway hyper-reactivity in asthma. This is demonstrated 
by bronchial challenge tests with sequentially increasing concentrations of 
either histamine, methacholine or mannitol. The reactivity of the airways is 
expressed as the concentration or dose of either chemical required to 
produce a specific decrease (usually 20%) in the FEV1 (PC20 or PD20 
respectively). 
Peak flow (L/min)
500
400
Early reaction
(type I)
Pre-formed mediator
release
Late reaction
(type Il)
Inflammatory cell
recruitment and
activation
300
200
100
Challenge,
e.g. allergen
Clinical features
Typical symptoms include recurrent episodes of wheez-
ing, chest tightness, breathlessness and cough. Asthma 
is commonly mistaken for a cold or chest infection which 
is taking time to resolve (e.g. longer than 10 days). Clas-
sical precipitants include exercise, particularly in cold 
weather, exposure to airborne allergens or pollutants, 
and viral upper respiratory tract infections. Wheeze 
apart, there is often very little to find on examination. 
An inspection for nasal polyps and eczema should be 
performed. Rarely, a vasculitic rash may suggest Churg–
Strauss syndrome (p. 1118).
Patients with mild intermittent asthma are usually 
asymptomatic between exacerbations. Individuals with 
persistent asthma report ongoing breathlessness and 
wheeze, but these are variable, with symptoms fluctuat-
ing over the course of one day, or from day to day or 
month to month.
Asthma characteristically displays a diurnal pattern, 
with symptoms and lung function being worse in the 
early morning. Particularly when poorly controlled, 
symptoms such as cough and wheeze disturb sleep and 
have led to the term ‘nocturnal asthma’. Cough may be 
the dominant symptom in some patients, and the lack of 
wheeze or breathlessness may lead to a delay in reach-
ing the diagnosis of so-called ‘cough-variant asthma’.
Some patients with asthma have a similar inflamma-
0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
24
Time (hours)
Fig. 19.18 Changes in peak flow following allergen challenge. 
A similar biphasic response is observed following a variety of different 
challenges. Occasionally, an isolated late response is seen with no early 
reaction. 
are also implicated in some cases of occupational  
asthma (p. 715).
In cases of aspirin-sensitive asthma, the ingestion of 
salicylates results in inhibition of the cyclo-oxygenase 
enzymes, preferentially shunting the metabolism of ara-
chidonic acid through the lipoxygenase pathway with 
resultant production of the asthmogenic cysteinyl leuko-
trienes. In exercise-induced asthma, hyperventilation 
results in water loss from the pericellular lining fluid of 
the respiratory mucosa, which, in turn, triggers media-
tor release. Heat loss from the respiratory mucosa may 
also be important.
In persistent asthma, a chronic and complex inflam-
667
matory response ensues, characterised by an influx of 
numerous inflammatory cells, the transformation and 
participation of airway structural cells, and the secretion 
tory response in the upper airway. Careful enquiry 
should be made as to a history of sinusitis, sinus  
headache, a blocked or runny nose, and loss of sense  
of smell.
Although the aetiology of asthma is often elusive, an 
attempt should be made to identify any agents that may 
contribute to the appearance or aggravation of the con-
dition. Particular enquiry should be made about poten-
tial allergens, such as exposure to a pet cat, guinea pig, 
rabbit or horse, pest infestation, exposure to moulds fol-
lowing water damage to a home or building, and any 
potential occupational agents.
In some circumstances, the appearance of asthma is 
triggered by medications. Beta-blockers, even when 
administered topically as eye drops, may induce 
broncho spasm, as may aspirin and other non-steroidal  
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The classical aspirin-
sensitive patient is female and presents in middle age 
with asthma, rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps. Aspirin-
sensitive patients may also report symptoms following 
alcohol (in particular, white wine) and foods containing 
salicylates. Other medications implicated include the 
oral contraceptive pill, cholinergic agents and prosta-
glandin F2α. Betel nuts contain arecoline, which is 
structurally similar to methacholine and can aggravate 
asthma. An important minority of patients develop a 
RespiRatoRy disease
Peak flow (L/min)
19
500
particularly severe form of asthma, and this appears to 
be more common in women. Allergic triggers are less 
important and airway neutrophilia predominates.
400
Steroids
commenced
300
200
100
pm
pm
am
am
pm
pm
am
am
pm
am
am
5
1
2
3
4
Time (days)
Diagnosis
The diagnosis of asthma is predominantly clinical and 
based on a characteristic history. Supportive evidence is 
provided by the demonstration of variable airflow 
obstruction, preferably by using spirometry (Box 19.21) 
to measure FEV1 and VC. This identifies the obstructive 
defect, defines its severity, and provides a baseline for 
bronchodilator reversibility (Fig. 19.19). If spirometry is 
not available, a peak flow meter may be used. Patients 
should be instructed to record peak flow readings after 
rising in the morning and before retiring in the evening. 
A diurnal variation in PEF of more than 20% (the lowest 
values typically being recorded in the morning) is con-
sidered diagnostic, and the magnitude of variability pro-
vides some indication of disease severity (Fig. 19.20). A 
trial of corticosteroids (e.g. 30 mg daily for 2 weeks) may 
be useful in establishing the diagnosis, by demonstrat-
ing an improvement in either FEV1 or PEF.
It is not uncommon for patients whose symptoms  
are suggestive of asthma to have normal lung function. 
In these circumstances, the demonstration of AHR by 
challenge tests may be useful to confirm the diagnosis 
Fig. 19.20 Serial recordings of peak expiratory flow (PEF) in 
a patient with asthma. Note the sharp overnight fall (morning dip) 
and subsequent rise during the day. Following the introduction of 
corticosteroids, there is an improvement in PEF rate and loss of morning 
dipping. 
19.21 How to make a diagnosis of asthma
Compatible clinical history plus either/or:
• FEV1 ≥ 15%* (and 200 mL) increase following administration 
of a bronchodilator/trial of corticosteroids
• > 20% diurnal variation on ≥ 3 days in a week for 2 weeks 
on PEF diary
(see Fig. 19.17). AHR is sensitive but non-specific: it has 
a high negative predictive value but positive results may 
be seen in other conditions, such as COPD, bronchiecta-
sis and cystic fibrosis. When symptoms are predomi-
nantly related to exercise, an exercise challenge may be 
followed by a drop in lung function (Fig. 19.21).
• FEV1 ≥ 15% decrease after 6 mins of exercise
*Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) definition accepts an increase of 12%.
FEV1 (L)
3.5
Volume
expired (L)
3.0
2.5
20 min after
bronchodilator drug
administered
2.5
FEV1
2.0
Exercise
Before bronchodilator
drug administered
1
FEV1
Time (minutes)
30
0
25
20
15
10
5
7
8
6
0
5
4
3
2
1
Time (seconds)
Fig. 19.21 Exercise-induced asthma. Serial recordings of FEV1 in a 
patient with bronchial asthma before and after 6 minutes of strenuous 
exercise. Note initial rise on completion of exercise, followed by sudden fall 
and gradual recovery. Adequate warm-up exercise or pre-treatment with a 
β2-adrenoceptor agonist, nedocromil sodium or a leukotriene antagonist 
can protect against exercise-induced symptoms. 
668
Fig. 19.19 Reversibility test. Forced expiratory manœuvres before and 
20 minutes after inhalation of a β2-adrenoceptor agonist. Note the increase 
in FEV1 from 1.0 to 2.5 L. 
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
Other investigations
• Measurement of allergic status: the presence of atopy 
may be demonstrated by skin prick tests. Similar 
information may be provided by the measurement 
of total and allergen-specific IgE. A full blood 
picture may show the peripheral blood eosinophilia.
relevant antigens, such as a pet, may effect improve-
ment. House dust mite exposure may be minimised by 
replacing carpets with floorboards and using mite-
impermeable bedding. So far, improvements in asthma 
control following such measures have been difficult to 
demonstrate. Many patients are sensitised to several 
ubiquitous aeroallergens, making avoidance strategies 
largely impractical. Measures to reduce fungal exposure 
and eliminate cockroaches may be applicable in specific 
circumstances, and medications known to precipitate or 
aggravate asthma should be avoided. Smoking cessation 
(p. 100) is particularly important, as smoking not only 
encourages sensitisation, but also induces a relative cor-
ticosteroid resistance in the airway.
• Radiological examination: chest X-ray appearances are 
often normal or show hyperinflation of lung fields. 
Lobar collapse may be seen if mucus occludes a 
large bronchus and, if accompanied by the presence 
of flitting infiltrates, may suggest that asthma has 
been complicated by allergic bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis (p. 697). An HRCT scan may be useful 
to detect bronchiectasis.
• Assessment of eosinophilic airway inflammation: an 
induced sputum differential eosinophil count of 
greater than 2% or exhaled breath nitric oxide 
concentration (FENO) may support the diagnosis but 
is non-specific.
19
The stepwise approach to the management 
of asthma (Fig. 19.22)
Step 1: Occasional use of inhaled short-acting 
β2-adrenoreceptor agonist bronchodilators
For patients with mild intermittent asthma (symptoms 
less than once a week for 3 months and fewer than two 
nocturnal episodes per month), it is usually sufficient to 
prescribe an inhaled short-acting β2-agonist, such as 
salbutamol or terbutaline, to be used as required. 
However, many patients (and their physicians) under-
estimate the severity of asthma. A history of a severe 
exacerbation should lead to a step-up in treatment.
A variety of different inhaled devices are available 
and the choice of device should be guided by patient 
preference and competence in its use. The metered-dose 
inhaler remains the most widely prescribed (Fig. 19.23).
Step 2: Introduction of regular preventer therapy
Regular anti-inflammatory therapy (preferably inhaled 
corticosteroids (ICS), such as beclometasone, budeso-
nide (BUD), fluticasone or ciclesonide) should be started 
in addition to inhaled β2-agonists taken on an as-required 
basis for any patient who:
• has experienced an exacerbation of asthma in the 
last 2 years (Box 19.23)
Management
Setting goals
Asthma is a chronic condition but may be controlled 
with appropriate treatment in the majority of patients. 
The goal of treatment should be to obtain and maintain 
complete control (Box 19.22), but aims may be modified 
according to the circumstances and the patient. Unfor-
tunately, surveys consistently demonstrate that the 
majority of individuals with asthma report suboptimal 
control, perhaps reflecting the poor expectations of 
patients and their clinicians.
Whenever possible, patients should be encouraged to 
take responsibility for managing their own disease. A 
full explanation of the nature of the condition, the  
relationship between symptoms and inflammation, the 
importance of key symptoms such as nocturnal waking, 
the different types of medication, and, if appropriate,  
the use of PEF to guide management decisions, should 
be given. A variety of tools/questionnaires have  
been validated to assist in assessing asthma control. 
Written action plans can be helpful in developing self-
management skills.
• uses inhaled β2-agonists three times a week or more
• reports symptoms three times a week or more
• is awakened by asthma one night per week.
Avoidance of aggravating factors
This is particularly important in the management of 
occupational asthma (p. 715) but may also be relevant in 
atopic patients, when removing or reducing exposure to 
For adults, a reasonable starting dose is 400 µg 
beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) or equivalent per 
day in adults, although higher doses may be required in 
smokers. Alternative but much less effective preventive 
19.22 Levels of asthma control*
Characteristic
Controlled
Partly controlled (any present 
in any week)
Uncontrolled
Daytime symptoms
None (≤ twice/wk)
> twice/wk
Limitations of activities
None
Any
Nocturnal symptoms/awakening
None
Any
≥ 3 features of partly controlled 
asthma present in any wk
Need for rescue/‘reliever’ treatment
None (≤ twice/wk)
> twice/wk
}
Lung function (PEF or FEV1)
Normal
< 80% predicted or personal 
best (if known) on any day
Exacerbation
None
≥ 1/yr
1 in any wk
 
*Based on GINA guidelines.
669
RespiRatoRy disease
19
Move up to improve control as needed
Patients should start treatment at the step most
appropriate to the initial severity of their asthma.
Check concordance and reconsider diagnosis if
response due to treatment is unexpectedly poor
Use daily steroid tablet
in lowest dose providing
adequate control
Move down to find and maintain lowest controlling step
Maintain high-dose
inhaled steroid at
2000 µg/day*
Inhaled short-acting
β2-agonist as required
Add inhaled steroid
200–800 µg/day*
400 µg is an appropriate
starting dose for many
patients
Consider trials of:
• Increasing inhaled
   steroid up to
   2000 µg/day*
• Addition of a fourth
   drug, e.g. leukotriene
   receptor antagonist, SR
   theophylline, β2-agonist
   tablet 
Consider other
treatments to minimise
use of steroid tablets
Refer patient for
specialist care
Start at dose of inhaled
steroid appropriate to
severity of disease
STEP 5
1 Add inhaled long-
   acting β2-agonist
   (LABA)
2 Assess control of
   asthma:
   • Good response to
      LABA
      – continue LABA
   • Benefit from LABA
      but control still
      inadequate
      – continue LABA and
      increase inhaled
      steroid dose to
      800 µg/day* (if not
      already on this dose)
   • No response
      to LABA
      – stop LABA and
      increase inhaled
      steroid to 800 µg/
      day.* If control still
      inadequate, institute
      trial of other therapies,
      leukotriene receptor
      antagonist or SR
      theophylline
      
STEP 4
Continuous or
frequent use of
oral steroids
STEP 3
Persistent poor
control
STEP 2
Initial add-on
therapy
STEP 1
Regular preventer
therapy
Mild intermittent
asthma
vs
Treatment
Symptoms
Fig. 19.22 Management approach in adults based on asthma control. *Beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) or equivalent. From British Thoracic 
Society and SIGN – see p. 732.
• Remove the cap and shake the inhaler
19.23 Inhaled corticosteroids and asthma
• Breathe out gently and place the
   mouthpiece into the mouth
‘Regular therapy with low-dose budesonide reduces the risk of 
severe exacerbations in patients with mild persistent asthma.’
• Pauwels RA, et al. Lancet 2003; 361:1066–1067.
• Incline the head backwards to minimise
   oropharyngeal deposition
• Simultaneously, begin a slow deep
   inspiration, depress the canister and
   continue to inhale
• Hold the breath for 10 seconds
Fig. 19.23 How to use a metered-dose inhaler. 
agents include chromones, leukotriene receptor antago-
nists, and theophyllines.
670
adherence, inhaler technique and ongoing exposure to 
modifiable aggravating factors. A further increase in the 
dose of ICS may benefit some patients but, in general, 
add-on therapy should be considered in adults taking 
800 µg/day BDP (or equivalent).
Long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs), such as salmeterol 
and formoterol (duration of action of at least 12 hours), 
represent the first choice of add-on therapy. They have 
consistently been demonstrated to improve asthma 
control and to reduce the frequency and severity of exac-
erbations when compared to increasing the dose of ICS 
alone. Fixed combination inhalers of ICS and LABAs 
have been developed; these are more convenient, 
increase compliance and prevent patients using a LABA 
Step 3: Add-on therapy
If a patient remains poorly controlled, despite regular 
use of ICS, a thorough review should be undertaken of 
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
19.24 Asthma in pregnancy
• Unpredictable clinical course: one-third worsen, one-third 
remain stable and one-third improve.
Step-down therapy
Once asthma control is established, the dose of inhaled 
(or oral) corticosteroid should be titrated to the lowest 
dose at which effective control of asthma is maintained. 
Decreasing the dose of ICS by around 25–50% every  
3 months is a reasonable strategy for most patients.
• Labour and delivery: 90% have no symptoms.
• Safety data: good for β2-agonists, inhaled steroids, 
theophyllines, oral prednisolone, and chromones.
• Oral leukotriene receptor antagonists: no evidence that 
these harm the fetus and they should not be stopped in 
women who have previously demonstrated significant 
improvement in asthma control prior to pregnancy.
• Steroids: women on maintenance prednisolone > 7.5 mg/
day should receive hydrocortisone 100 mg 3–4 times daily 
during labour.
• Prostaglandin F2α: may induce bronchospasm and should 
be used with extreme caution.
• Breastfeeding: use medications as normal.
• Uncontrolled asthma: associated with maternal 
Exacerbations of asthma
The course of asthma may be punctuated by exacerba-
tions with increased symptoms, deterioration in lung 
function, and an increase in airway inflammation. Exac-
erbations are most commonly precipitated by viral infec-
tions, but moulds (Alternaria and Cladosporium), pollens 
(particularly following thunderstorms) and air pollution 
are also implicated. Most attacks are characterised by a 
gradual deterioration over several hours to days but 
some appear to occur with little or no warning: so-called 
brittle asthma. An important minority of patients appear 
to have a blunted perception of airway narrowing and 
fail to appreciate the early signs of deterioration.
(hyperemesis, hypertension, pre-eclampsia, vaginal 
haemorrhage, complicated labour) and fetal (intrauterine 
growth restriction and low birth weight, preterm birth, 
increased perinatal mortality, neonatal hypoxia) 
complications.
19
Management of mild to moderate exacerbations
Doubling the dose of ICS does not prevent an  
impending exacerbation. Short courses of ‘rescue’ oral 
cortico steroids (prednisolone 30–60 mg daily) therefore 
are often required to regain control. Tapering of the dose 
to withdraw treatment is not necessary, unless given for 
more than 3 weeks.
Indications for ‘rescue’ courses include:
• symptoms and PEF progressively worsening day by 
as monotherapy – the latter may be accompanied by an 
increased risk of life-threatening attacks or asthma 
death. The onset of action of formoterol is similar to that 
of salbutamol such that, in carefully selected patients, a 
fixed combination of budesonide and formoterol may be 
used as both rescue and maintenance therapy.
Oral leukotriene receptor antagonists (e.g. montelu-
day, with a fall of PEF below 60% of the patient’s 
personal best recording
• onset or worsening of sleep disturbance by asthma
• persistence of morning symptoms until midday
• progressively diminishing response to an inhaled 
bronchodilator
• symptoms sufficiently severe to require treatment 
kast 10 mg daily) are generally less effective than LABA 
as add-on therapy, but may facilitate a reduction in the 
dose of ICS and control exacerbations. Oral theophyllines 
may be considered in some patients but their unpredict-
able metabolism, propensity for drug interactions and 
prominent side-effects limit their widespread use.
with nebulised or injected bronchodilators.
Management of acute severe asthma
Box 19.25 highlights the immediate assessment require-
ments in acute asthma. Measurement of PEF is 
19.25 Immediate assessment of acute 
severe asthma
Step 4: Poor control on moderate dose  
of inhaled steroid and add-on therapy:  
addition of a fourth drug
In adults, the dose of ICS may be increased to 2000 µg 
BDP/BUD (or equivalent) daily. A nasal corticosteroid 
preparation should be used in patients with prominent 
upper airway symptoms. Oral therapy with leukotriene 
receptor antagonists, theophyllines or a slow-release β2-
agonist may be considered. If the trial of add-on therapy 
is ineffective, it should be discontinued. Oral itracona-
zole may be contemplated in patients with allergic bron-
chopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697).
Acute severe asthma
• PEF 33–50% predicted (< 200 L/min)
• Respiratory rate ≥ 25 breaths/min
• Heart rate ≥ 110 beats/min
• Inability to complete sentences in 1 breath
Life-threatening features
• PEF < 33% predicted 
(< 100 L/min)
• SpO2 < 92% or PaO2 
< 8 kPa (60 mmHg) 
(especially if being treated 
with oxygen)
• Cyanosis
• Feeble respiratory effort
• Bradycardia or arrhythmias
• Hypotension
• Exhaustion
• Confusion
• Coma
• Normal or raised PaCO2
• Silent chest
Near-fatal asthma
• Raised PaCO2 and/or requiring mechanical ventilation with 
raised inflation pressures
671
Step 5: Continuous or frequent use of oral steroids
At this stage, prednisolone therapy (usually adminis-
tered as a single daily dose in the morning) should be 
prescribed in the lowest amount necessary to control 
symptoms. Patients on long-term corticosteroid tablets 
(> 3 months) or receiving more than three or four courses 
per year will be at risk of systemic side-effects (p. 776). 
Osteoporosis can be prevented in this group by giving 
bisphosphonates (p. 1123). In atopic patients, omalizu-
mab, a monoclonal antibody directed against IgE, may 
prove helpful in reducing symptoms and allowing a 
reduction in the prednisolone dose. Steroid-sparing 
therapies, such as methotrexate, ciclosporin or oral gold, 
may be considered.
RespiRatoRy disease
19
MEASURE PEAK EXPIRATORY FLOW
Convert PEF to % best or % predicted
Moderate
Mild
50%
0%
75%
51%
100%
76%
Life-threatening/acute
severe
Did patient receive nebulised
therapy before PEF recorded?
No
Yes
Arterial blood gas
Nebulised salbutamol 5 mg or
terbutaline 2.5 mg
Oxygen—high-flow/60%
Prednisolone 40 mg orally
Arterial blood gas
Nebulised salbutamol 5 mg or
terbutaline 2.5 mg
6–12 times daily or as required
Oxygen—high-flow/60%
Prednisolone 40 mg orally
(or hydrocortisone 200 mg IV)
Wait 30 mins
Usual inhaled
bronchodilator
Wait 60 mins
Measure PEF
Home
PEF < 60%
predicted
• Usual treatment
• Return immediately if worse
• Appointment with GP within
  48 hrs
IV access, CXR, plasma theophylline 
level, plasma K+
Admit
PEF > 60%
predicted
Home
• Check with senior medical staff
• Prednisolone 40 mg daily for 5 days
• Start or double inhaled
  corticosteroids
• Return immediately if worse
• Appointment with GP within 48 hrs
• Administer repeat salbutamol
   5 mg + ipratropium bromide 500 µg
  by oxygen-driven nebuliser
• Consider continuous salbutamol
  nebuliser 5–10 mg/hr
• Consider IV magnesium sulphate
  1.2–2.0 g over 20 mins, or
  aminophylline 5 mg/kg loading dose
  over 20 mins followed by a
  continuous infusion at 1 mg/kg/hr
• Correct fluid and electrolytes
  (especially K+) 
Fig. 19.24 Immediate treatment of patients with acute severe asthma. 
mandatory, unless the patient is too ill to cooperate, and 
is most easily interpreted when expressed as a percent-
age of the predicted normal or of the previous best value 
obtained on optimal treatment (Fig. 19.24). Arterial 
blood gas analysis is essential to determine the PaCO2, 
a normal or elevated level being particularly dangerous. 
A chest X-ray is not immediately necessary, unless 
pneumo thorax is suspected.
Treatment includes the following measures:
• Oxygen. High concentrations (humidified if 
possible) should be administered to maintain the 
oxygen saturation above 92% in adults. The 
presence of a high PaCO2 should not be taken as an 
indication to reduce oxygen concentration, but as a 
warning sign of a severe or life-threatening attack. 
Failure to achieve appropriate oxygenation is an 
indication for assisted ventilation.
intravenous hydrocortisone may be used in patients 
who are vomiting or unable to swallow.
There is no evidence base for the use of intravenous 
fluids but many patients are dehydrated due to high 
insensible water loss and will probably benefit. Potas-
sium supplements may be necessary, as repeated doses 
of salbutamol can lower serum potassium.
If patients fail to improve, a number of further options 
may be considered. Intravenous magnesium may 
provide additional bronchodilatation in patients whose 
presenting PEF is below 30% predicted. Some patients 
appear to benefit from the use of intravenous amino-
phylline but cardiac monitoring is recommended.
PEF should be recorded every 15–30 minutes and 
then every 4–6 hours. Pulse oximetry should ensure that 
SaO2 remains above 92%, but repeat arterial blood gases 
are necessary if the initial PaCO2 measurements were 
normal or raised, the PaO2 was below 8 kPa (60 mmHg), 
or the patient deteriorates. Box 19.26 lists the indications 
19.26 Indications for assisted ventilation in 
acute severe asthma
• Coma
• Respiratory arrest
• Deterioration of arterial blood gas tensions despite optimal 
• High doses of inhaled bronchodilators. Short-acting 
β2-agonists are the agent of choice. In hospital, they 
are most conveniently given via a nebuliser driven 
by oxygen, but delivery of multiple doses of 
salbutamol via a metered-dose inhaler through a 
spacer device provides equivalent bronchodilatation 
and can be used in primary care. Ipratropium 
bromide provides further bronchodilator therapy 
and should be added to salbutamol in acute severe 
or life-threatening attacks.
therapy
PaO2 < 8 kPa (60 mmHg) and falling
PaCO2 > 6 kPa (45 mmHg) and rising
pH low and falling (H+ high and rising)
• Exhaustion, confusion, drowsiness
672
• Systemic corticosteroids. These reduce the 
inflammatory response and hasten the resolution of 
an exacerbation. They should be administered to all 
patients with an acute severe attack. They can 
usually be administered orally as prednisolone, but 
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
for endotracheal intubation and intermittent positive 
pressure ventilation.
consecutive years) and emphysema (abnormal perma-
nent enlargement of the airspaces distal to the terminal  
bronchioles, accompanied by destruction of their walls 
and without obvious fibrosis). Extra-pulmonary effects 
include weight loss and skeletal muscle dysfunction 
(Fig. 19.25). Commonly associated comorbid conditions 
include cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, 
the metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, depression and 
lung cancer.
Prognosis
The outcome from acute severe asthma is generally 
good. Death is fortunately rare but a considerable 
number of deaths occur in young people and many are 
preventable. Failure to recognise the severity of an 
attack, on the part of either the assessing physician or 
the patient, contributes to delay in delivering appropri-
ate therapy and to under-treatment.
Prior to discharge, patients should be stable on dis-
charge medication (nebulised therapy should have been 
discontinued for at least 24 hours) and the PEF should 
have reached 75% of predicted or personal best. The 
acute attack should prompt a look for and avoidance of 
any trigger factors, the delivery of asthma education and 
the provision of a written self-management plan. The 
patient should be offered an appointment with a GP or 
asthma nurse within 2 working days of discharge, and 
follow-up at a specialist hospital clinic within a month.
19
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Epidemiology and aetiology
The prevalence of COPD is directly related to the preva-
lence of tobacco smoking and, in low- and middle-
income countries, the use of biomass fuels. Current 
estimates suggest that 80 million people worldwide 
suffer from moderate to severe disease. In 2005, COPD 
contributed to more than 3 million deaths (5% of  
deaths globally), but, by 2020, it is forecast to represent 
the third most important cause of death worldwide. The 
anticipated rise in morbidity and mortality from COPD 
will be greatest in Asian and African countries, as a 
result of their increasing tobacco consumption.
Other risk factors are shown in Box 19.27. Cigarette 
smoking represents the most significant risk factor, and 
the risk of developing COPD relates to both the amount 
and the duration of smoking. It is unusual to develop 
COPD with less than 10 pack years (1 pack year = 
20 cigarettes/day/year) and not all smokers develop 
the condition, suggesting that individual susceptibility 
factors are important.
Pathophysiology
COPD has both pulmonary and systemic components 
(see Fig. 19.25). The presence of airflow limitation, 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a pre-
ventable and treatable disease characterised by persist-
ent airflow limitation that is usually progressive, and 
associated with an enhanced chronic inflammatory 
response in the airways and the lung to noxious particles 
or gases. Exacerbations and comorbidities contribute to 
the overall severity in individual patients. Related diag-
noses include chronic bronchitis (cough and sputum  
on most days for at least 3 months, in each of 2 
Enlargement of mucus-secreting glands
and increase in number of goblet cells,
accompanied by an inflammatory cell
infiltrate, result in increased sputum
production leading to chronic bronchitis
Loss of elastic tissue, inflammation and
fibrosis in airway wall result in premature
airway closure, gas trapping and dynamic
hyperinflation leading to changes in 
pulmonary and chest wall compliance
Pulmonary vascular
remodelling and impaired
cardiac performance
Unopposed action of
proteases and oxidants
leading to destruction of
alveoli and appearance
of emphysema
Pulmonary
Systemic
↑ Prevalence of
osteoporosis
Muscular weakness
reflecting deconditioning
and cellular changes
in skeletal muscles
Altered fat
metabolism
contributing
to weight loss
Increased
circulating
inflammatory
markers
Impaired salt and
water excretion
leading to
peripheral oedema
673
Fig. 19.25 The pulmonary and systemic features of COPD. 
RespiRatoRy disease
A
19.27 Risk factors for development of COPD
19
Environmental
• Tobacco smoke accounts for 95% of cases in UK
• Indoor air pollution; cooking with biomass fuels in confined 
areas in developing countries
• Occupational exposures, such as coal dust, silica and 
cadmium
• Low birth weight may reduce maximally attained lung 
function in young adult life
• Lung growth: childhood infections or maternal smoking may 
affect growth of lung during childhood, resulting in a lower 
maximally attained lung function in adult life
• Infections: recurrent infection may accelerate decline in FEV1; 
B
persistence of adenovirus in lung tissue may alter local 
inflammatory response, predisposing to lung damage; HIV 
infection is associated with emphysema
• Low socioeconomic status
• Cannabis smoking
Host factors
• Genetic factors: α1-antiproteinase deficiency; other COPD 
susceptibility genes are likely to be identified
• Airway hyper-reactivity
Fig. 19.26 The pathology of emphysema.  A Normal lung.
 B Emphysematous lung showing gross loss of the normal surface 
area available for gas exchange. 
19.28 Modified MRC dyspnoea scale
Grade
Degree of breathlessness related to activities
0
No breathlessness, except with strenuous exercise
1
Breathlessness when hurrying on the level or 
walking up a slight hill
combined with premature airway closure, leads to gas 
trapping and hyperinflation, reducing pulmonary and 
chest wall compliance. Pulmonary hyperinflation also 
flattens the diaphragmatic muscles and leads to an 
increasingly horizontal alignment of the intercostal 
muscles, placing the respiratory muscles at a mechani-
cal disadvantage. The work of breathing is therefore 
markedly increased, first on exercise, when the time for 
expiration is further shortened, but then, as the disease 
advances, at rest.
Emphysema (Fig. 19.26) may be classified by the 
pattern of the enlarged airspaces as centriacinar,  
panacinar or paraseptal. Bullae form in some individu-
als. This results in impaired gas exchange and respira-
tory failure.
2
Walks slower than contemporaries on level ground 
because of breathlessness or has to stop for breath 
when walking at own pace
3
Stops for breath after walking about 100 m or after 
a few minutes on level ground
4
Too breathless to leave the house, or breathless 
when dressing or undressing
(MRC = Medical Research Council)
Clinical features
COPD should be suspected in any patient over the age 
of 40 years who presents with symptoms of chronic 
bronchitis and/or breathlessness. Important differential 
diagnoses include chronic asthma, tuberculosis, bron-
chiectasis and congestive cardiac failure.
Cough and associated sputum production are usually 
the first symptoms, often referred to as a ‘smoker’s 
cough’. Haemoptysis may complicate exacerbations of 
COPD but should not be attributed to COPD without 
thorough investigation.
Breathlessness usually precipitates the presentation 
to health care. The severity should be quantified by 
documenting what level of exertion the patient can 
manage before stopping; scales such as the modified 
MRC dyspnoea scale may be useful (Box 19.28). In 
advanced disease, enquiry should be made about the 
presence of oedema, which may be seen for the first time 
during an exacerbation, and morning headaches, which 
may suggest hypercapnia.
Physical signs (pp. 644–645) are non-specific, corre-
674
until the disease is advanced. Breath sounds are typi-
cally quiet. Crackles may accompany infection but, if 
persistent, raise the possibility of bronchiectasis. Finger 
clubbing is not a feature of COPD and should trigger 
further investigation for lung cancer or fibrosis. Pitting 
oedema should be sought but the frequently used term 
‘cor pulmonale’ is actually a misnomer, as the right heart 
seldom ‘fails’ in COPD and the occurrence of oedema 
usually relates to failure of salt and water excretion by 
the hypoxic hypercapnic kidney. The body mass index 
(BMI – p. 114) is of prognostic significance.
Two classical phenotypes have been described: ‘pink 
puffers’ and ‘blue bloaters’. The former are typically thin 
late poorly with lung function, and are seldom obvious 
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
and breathless, and maintain a normal PaCO2 until the 
late stage of disease. The latter develop (or tolerate) 
hypercapnia earlier and may develop oedema and sec-
ondary polycythaemia. In practice, these phenotypes 
often overlap.
R
L
Fig. 19.27 Gross emphysema. HRCT showing emphysema, most 
evident in the right lower lobe. 
19
Management
The management of COPD (Fig. 19.28) has been the 
subject of unjustified pessimism. It is usually possible to 
help breathlessness, reduce the frequency and severity 
of exacerbations, enhance the health status, and improve 
the prognosis.
Investigations
Although there are no reliable radiographic signs that 
correlate with the severity of airflow limitation, a chest 
X-ray is essential to identify alternative diagnoses, such 
as cardiac failure, other complications of smoking such 
as lung cancer, and the presence of bullae. A blood count 
is useful to exclude anaemia or polycythaemia, and in 
younger patients with predominantly basal emphy-
sema, α1-antiproteinase should be assayed.
The diagnosis requires objective demonstration of 
airflow obstruction by spirometry and is established 
when the post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC is less than 
70%. The severity of COPD may be defined in relation 
to the post-bronchodilator FEV1 (Box 19.29). A low peak 
flow is consistent with COPD but is non-specific, does 
not discriminate between obstructive and restrictive dis-
orders, and may underestimate the severity of airflow 
limitation.
Measurement of lung volumes provides an assess-
Reducing exposure to noxious particles and gases
Every attempt should be made to highlight to the patient 
the role of smoking in the development and progression 
of COPD, with advice and assistance to help them stop 
(p. 100). Reducing the number of cigarettes smoked each 
day has little impact on the course and prognosis of 
COPD, but complete cessation is accompanied by an 
improvement in lung function and deceleration in the 
rate of FEV1 decline (Fig. 19.29 and Box 19.30). In regions 
where the indoor burning of biomass fuels is important, 
the introduction of non-smoking cooking devices or use 
of alternative fuels should be encouraged.
ment of hyperinflation. This is generally performed by 
using the helium dilution technique (p. 653); in patients 
with severe COPD, and with large bullae in particular, 
body plethysmography is preferred because the use of 
helium may underestimate lung volumes. Emphysema 
is suggested by a low gas transfer value (p. 653). Exercise 
tests provide an objective assessment of exercise toler-
ance and a baseline for judging response to bronchodila-
tor therapy or rehabilitation programmes; they may also 
be valuable when assessing prognosis. Pulse oximetry 
of less than 93% may indicate the need for referral for a 
domiciliary oxygen assessment.
The assessment of health status provides valuable 
clinical information. The St George’s Respiratory Ques-
tionnaire (SGRQ) is a commonly used research tool but 
is too cumbersome for routine clinical practice. The 
COPD Assessment Test (CAT) employs only eight ques-
tions and the scores correlate closely with the SGRQ.
HRCT is likely to play an increasing role in the assess-
ment of COPD, as it allows the detection, characterisa-
tion and quantification of emphysema (Fig. 19.27) and is 
more sensitive than a chest X-ray for detecting bullae.
19.29 Spirometric classification of COPD severity 
based on post-bronchodilator FEV1
Stage
Severity
FEV1
I
Mild*
FEV1/FVC < 0.70
FEV1 ≥ 80% predicted
Bronchodilators
Bronchodilator therapy is central to the management of 
breathlessness. The inhaled route is preferred and a 
number of different agents, delivered by a variety of 
devices, are available. Choice should be informed by 
patient preference and inhaler assessment. Short-acting 
bronchodilators, such as the β2-agonists salbutamol and 
terbutaline, or the anticholinergic ipratropium bromide, 
may be used for patients with mild disease, but longer-
acting bronchodilators, such as the β2-agonists salme-
terol, formoterol and indacaterol, or the anticholinergic 
tiotropium bromide, are more appropriate for patients 
with moderate to severe disease. Significant improve-
ments in breathlessness may be reported, despite 
minimal changes in FEV1, probably reflecting improve-
ments in lung emptying that reduce dynamic hyper-
inflation and ease the work of breathing.
II
Moderate
FEV1/FVC < 0.70
FEV1 50–79% predicted
III
Severe
FEV1/FVC < 0.70
FEV1 30–49% predicted
19.30 Smoking cessation and COPD
IV
Very severe
FEV1/FVC < 0.70
FEV1 < 30% predicted or FEV1 < 50% 
predicted if respiratory failure present
‘Sustained smoking cessation in mild to moderate COPD is 
accompanied by a reduced decline in FEV1 compared to 
persistent smokers.’
• Anthonisen NR, et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002; 166:675–679.
*Mild COPD should not be diagnosed on lung function alone if the patient is 
asymptomatic.
Based on NICE guidelines 2010.
675
RespiRatoRy disease
I : Mild
II : Moderate
III : Severe
IV : Very severe
19
• FEV1/FVC < 0.70
• FEV1 < 30% predicted or
  FEV1 < 50% predicted plus
  chronic respiratory failure
• FEV1/FVC < 0.70
• 30% ≤ FEV1 < 50%
  predicted
• FEV1/FVC < 0.70
• 50% ≤ FEV1 < 80%
  predicted
• FEV1/FVC < 0.70
• FEV1 ≥ 80% predicted
Active reduction of risk factor(s); influenza vaccination
Add short-acting bronchodilator (when needed)
Add regular treatment with one or more long-acting bronchodilators (when needed)
Add rehabilitation
Add inhaled glucocorticosteroids if repeated
exacerbations
Add long-term oxygen if
chronic respiratory failure
Consider surgical
treatments
Fig. 19.28 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines for treatment of COPD. Post-bronchodilator FEV1 is 
recommended for the diagnosis and assessment of severity of COPD. From www.goldcopd.com – see p. 732.
Never smoked or not
susceptible to smoke
FEV1
(% of value at age 25)
of asthma but do not predict response to inhaled steroids 
in COPD.
100
75
50
Stopped
smoking
at 45
Smoked regularly
and susceptible
to its effects
25
Disability
Pulmonary rehabilitation
Exercise should be encouraged at all stages and patients 
reassured that breathlessness, whilst distressing, is not 
dangerous. Multidisciplinary programmes that incorpo-
rate physical training, disease education and nutritional 
counselling reduce symptoms, improve health status 
and enhance confidence. Most programmes include  
2–3 sessions per week for 6 and 12 weeks, and are 
accompanied by demonstrable and sustained improve-
ments in exercise tolerance and health status.
Stopped
smoking
at 65
Death
0
75
50
25
Age (years)
Oxygen therapy
Long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy (LTOT) has been 
shown to be of significant benefit in selected patients 
(Boxes 19.31 and 19.32). It is most conveniently provided 
Fig. 19.29 Model of annual decline in FEV1 with accelerated 
decline in susceptible smokers. When smoking is stopped, 
subsequent loss is similar to that in healthy non-smokers. 
19.31 Long-term domiciliary oxygen 
therapy
Oral bronchodilator therapy may be used in  
‘Long-term home oxygen therapy improves survival in selected 
patients with COPD complicated by severe hypoxaemia (arterial 
PaO2 less than 8.0 kPa (55 mmHg)).’
• Cranston JM, et al. Domiciliary oxygen for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2005, issue 4. Art no. 
CD001744.
For further information: 
 www.brit-thoracic.org.uk
patients who cannot use inhaled devices efficiently. 
Theophylline preparations improve breathlessness and 
quality of life, but their use is limited by side-effects, 
unpredictable metabolism and drug interactions. Bam-
buterol, a pro-drug of terbutaline, is used on occasion. 
Orally active, highly selective phosphodiesterase inhibi-
tors are currently under appraisal.
19.32 Prescription of long-term oxygen therapy 
in COPD
Arterial blood gases measured in clinically stable patients on 
optimal medical therapy on at least two occasions 3 weeks 
apart:
• PaO2 < 7.3 kPa (55 mmHg) irrespective of PaCO2 and FEV1 
< 1.5 L
• PaO2 7.3–8 kPa (55–60 mmHg) plus pulmonary hypertension, 
Corticosteroids
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) reduce the frequency  
and severity of exacerbations, and are currently 
re commended in patients with severe disease (FEV1 
< 50%) who report two or more exacerbations requiring 
antibiotics or oral steroids per year. Regular use is asso-
ciated with a small improvement in FEV1, but ICS do 
not alter the natural history of the FEV1 decline. It is 
more usual to prescribe a fixed combination of an ICS 
and a LABA.
peripheral oedema or nocturnal hypoxaemia
Oral corticosteroids are useful during exacerbations 
• the patient has stopped smoking.
Use at least 15 hrs/day at 2–4 L/min to achieve a PaO2 
> 8 kPa (60 mmHg) without unacceptable rise in PaCO2.
676
but maintenance therapy contributes to osteoporosis 
and impaired skeletal muscle function and should be 
avoided. Oral corticosteroid trials assist in the diagnosis 
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
poor prognostic indicators include weight loss and pul-
monary hypertension. A composite score comprising the 
body mass index (B), the degree of airflow obstruction 
(O), a measurement of dyspnoea (D) and exercise capac-
ity (E) may assist in predicting death from respiratory 
and other causes (Box 19.33). Respiratory failure, cardiac 
disease and lung cancer represent common modes of 
death.
by an oxygen concentrator and patients should be 
instructed to use oxygen for a minimum of 15 hours per 
day; greater benefits are seen in patients who receive 
more than 20 hours per day. The aim of therapy is to 
increase the PaO2 to at least 8 kPa (60 mmHg) or SaO2 to 
at least 90%. Ambulatory oxygen therapy should be con-
sidered in patients who desaturate on exercise and show 
objective improvement in exercise capacity and/or  
dyspnoea with oxygen. Oxygen flow rates should be 
adjusted to maintain SaO2 above 90%.
19
Surgical intervention
Patients in whom large bullae compress surrounding 
normal lung tissue, who otherwise have minimal airflow 
limitation and a lack of generalised emphysema, may be 
considered for bullectomy. Patients with predominantly 
upper lobe emphysema, with preserved gas transfer and 
no evidence of pulmonary hypertension, may benefit 
from lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS), in which 
peripheral emphysematous lung tissue is resected with 
the aim of reducing hyperinflation and decreasing the 
work of breathing. Both bullectomy and LVRS can be 
performed thora scopically, minimising morbidity. Lung 
transplantation may benefit carefully selected patients 
with advanced disease (p. 665).
Acute exacerbations of COPD
Acute exacerbations of COPD are characterised by an 
increase in symptoms and deterioration in lung function 
and health status. They become more frequent as the 
disease progresses and are usually triggered by bacteria, 
viruses or a change in air quality. They may be accom-
panied by the development of respiratory failure and/
or fluid retention and are an important cause of death.
Many patients can be managed at home with the use 
of increased bronchodilator therapy, a short course of 
oral corticosteroids and, if appropriate, antibiotics. The 
presence of cyanosis, peripheral oedema or an alteration 
in consciousness indicates the need for referral to hospi-
tal. In other patients, consideration of comorbidity and 
social circumstances may influence decisions regarding 
hospital admission.
Management
In patients with an exacerbation of severe COPD, high 
concentrations of oxygen may cause respiratory depres-
sion and worsening acidosis (p. 665). Controlled oxygen 
at 24% or 28% should be used with the aim of maintain-
ing a PaO2 above 8 kPa (60 mmHg) (or an SaO2 between 
88% and 92%) without worsening acidosis.
Nebulised short-acting β2-agonists, combined with an 
anticholinergic agent (e.g. salbutamol and ipratropium), 
should be administered. With careful supervision, it is 
usually safe to drive nebulisers with oxygen, but if 
Other measures
Patients with COPD should be offered an annual influ-
enza vaccination and, as appropriate, pneumococcal 
vaccination. Obesity, poor nutrition, depression and 
social isolation should be addressed as far as possible. 
Mucolytic therapy or antioxidant agents are occasionally 
used but with limited evidence.
Addressing end-of-life needs is an important yet 
often ignored aspect of care in advanced disease. Mor-
phine may be used for palliation of breathlessness in 
advanced disease and benzodiazepines in low dose may 
reduce anxiety. Decisions regarding resuscitation should 
be discussed with the patient in advance of critical 
illness. 
19.34 Obstructive pulmonary disease in old age
• Asthma: may appear de novo in old age, so airflow 
obstruction should not always be assumed to be due to COPD.
• PEF recordings: older people with poor vision have difficulty 
Prognosis
COPD has a variable natural history but is usually pro-
gressive. The prognosis is inversely related to age and 
directly related to the post-bronchodilator FEV1. Other 
reading PEF meters.
• Perception of bronchoconstriction: impaired by age, so an 
older patient’s description of symptoms may not be a reliable 
indicator of severity.
• Stopping smoking: the benefits on the rate of loss of lung 
19.33 Calculation of the BODE index
Points on BODE index
function decline with age but remain valuable up to the age 
of 80.
• Metered-dose inhalers: many older people cannot use 
Variable
0
1
2
3
FEV1
≥ 65
50–64
36–49
≤ 35
≥ 350
250–349
150–249
≤ 149
these because of difficulty coordinating and triggering the 
device. Even mild cognitive impairment virtually precludes 
their use. Frequent demonstration and re-instruction in the 
use of all devices are required.
Distance walked 
in 6 mins (m)
• Mortality rates for acute asthma: higher in old age, partly 
0–1
2
3
4
MRC dyspnoea 
scale*
Body mass 
index
> 21
≤ 21
because patients underestimate the severity of 
bronchoconstriction and also develop a lower degree of 
tachycardia and pulsus paradoxus for the same degree of 
bronchoconstriction.
• Treatment decisions: advanced age in itself is not a barrier 
A patient with a BODE score of 0–2 has a mortality rate of 
around 10% at 52 mths, whereas a patient with a BODE score 
of 7–10 has a mortality rate of around 80% at 52 mths.
*See Box 19.28.
to intensive care or mechanical ventilation in an acute 
episode of asthma or COPD, but this decision may be difficult 
and should be shared with the patient (if possible), the 
relatives and the GP.
677
RespiRatoRy disease
19.36 Causes of bronchiectasis
19
concern exists regarding oxygen sensitivity, they may be 
driven by compressed air and supplemental oxygen 
delivered by nasal cannula.
Oral prednisolone reduces symptoms and improves 
Congenital
• Cystic fibrosis
• Ciliary dysfunction syndromes
Primary ciliary dyskinesia (immotile cilia syndrome)
Kartagener’s syndrome (sinusitis and transposition of the 
viscera)
• Primary hypogammaglobulinaemia (p. 881)
lung function. Currently, doses of 30 mg for 10 days  
are recommended but shorter courses may be  
acceptable. Prophylaxis against osteoporosis should be 
considered in patients who receive repeated courses of 
steroids (p. 776).
The role of bacteria in exacerbations remains contro-
Acquired: children
• Pneumonia (complicating whooping cough or measles)
• Primary TB
• Inhaled foreign body
Acquired: adults
• Suppurative pneumonia
• Pulmonary TB
• Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis complicating asthma 
(p. 697)
• Bronchial tumours
versial and there is little evidence for the routine admin-
istration of antibiotics. They are currently recommended, 
however, for patients reporting an increase in sputum 
purulence, sputum volume or breathlessness. In most 
cases, simple regimens are advised, such as an  
aminopenicillin or a macrolide. Co-amoxiclav is only 
required in regions where β-lactamase-producing organ-
isms are known to be common.
If, despite the above measures, the patient remains 
tachypnoeic, hypercapnic and acidotic (PaCO2 > 6 kPa, 
H+ ≥ 45 (pH < 7.35)), then NIV should be commenced 
(p. 193). Its use is associated with reduced requirements 
for mechanical ventilation and reduced mortality (Box 
19.35). It is not useful in patients who cannot protect 
their airway. Mechanical ventilation may be considered 
in those with a reversible cause for deterioration (e.g. 
pneumonia), or if there is no prior history of respiratory 
failure.
Exacerbations may be accompanied by the develop-
Aetiology and pathology
Bronchiectasis may result from a congenital defect 
affecting airway ion transport or ciliary function, such 
as cystic fibrosis (see below), or may be acquired second-
ary to damage to the airways by a destructive infection, 
inhaled toxin or foreign body. The result is chronic 
inflammation and infection in airways. Box 19.36 shows 
the common causes, of which tuberculosis is the most 
common worldwide.
Localised bronchiectasis may occur due to the accu-
mulation of pus beyond an obstructing bronchial lesion, 
such as enlarged tuberculous hilar lymph nodes, a  
bronchial tumour or an inhaled foreign body (e.g. an 
aspirated peanut).
The bronchiectatic cavities may be lined by granula-
ment of peripheral oedema that usually responds to 
diuretics. There has been a vogue for using intravenous 
infusions of aminophylline, but evidence for benefit is 
limited and there is an associated risk of inducing 
arrhythmias and drug interactions. The use of the respi-
ratory stimulant doxapram has been largely superseded 
by the development of NIV, but it may be useful for  
a limited period in selected patients with a low  
respiratory rate.
Discharge from hospital may be planned once 
patients are clinically stable on their usual maintenance 
medication. The provision of a nurse-led ‘hospital  
at home’ team providing short-term nebuliser loan 
improves discharge rates and additional support for the 
patient.
tion tissue, squamous epithelium or normal ciliated epi-
thelium. There may also be inflammatory changes in the 
deeper layers of the bronchial wall and hypertrophy of 
the bronchial arteries. Chronic inflammatory and fibrotic 
changes are usually found in the surrounding lung 
tissue, resulting in progressive destruction of the normal 
lung architecture in advanced cases.
19.35 Non-invasive ventilation in COPD 
exacerbations
Clinical features
The symptoms are shown in Box 19.37.
Physical signs in the chest may be unilateral or bilat-
‘Non-invasive ventilation is safe and effective in patients with an 
acute exacerbation of COPD complicated by mild to moderate 
respiratory acidosis, and should be considered early in the 
course of respiratory failure to reduce the need for endotracheal 
intubation, treatment failure and mortality.’
• Lim WJ, et al. Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation for treatment of 
respiratory failure due to exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2004, issue 3. Art. no. CD004104.
eral. If the bronchiectatic airways do not contain secre-
tions and there is no associated lobar collapse, there are 
no abnormal physical signs. When there are large 
amounts of sputum in the bronchiectatic spaces, numer-
ous coarse crackles may be heard over the affected areas. 
Collapse with retained secretions blocking a proximal 
bronchus may lead to locally diminished breath sounds, 
while advanced disease may cause scarring and over-
lying bronchial breathing. Acute haemoptysis is an 
important complication of bronchiectasis; management 
is described on page 659.
Bronchiectasis
Investigations
In addition to common respiratory pathogens, sputum 
culture may reveal Pseudomonas aeruginosa, fungi such as 
Aspergillus and various mycobacteria. Frequent cultures 
Bronchiectasis means abnormal dilatation of the bronchi. 
Chronic suppurative airway infection with sputum pro-
duction, progressive scarring and lung damage occur, 
whatever the cause.
678
Obstructive pulmonary diseases
19.37 Symptoms of bronchiectasis
• Cough: chronic, daily, persistent
• Sputum: copious, continuously purulent
• Pleuritic pain: when infection spreads to involve pleura, or 
with segmental collapse due to retained secretions
• Haemoptysis:
Streaks of blood common, larger volumes with 
exacerbations of infection
Massive haemoptysis requiring bronchial artery 
embolisation sometimes occurs
• Infective exacerbation: increased sputum volume with 
fever, malaise, anorexia
• Halitosis: frequently accompanies purulent sputum
• General debility: difficulty maintaining weight, anorexia, 
exertional breathlessness
Physiotherapy
Patients should be shown how to perform regular daily 
physiotherapy to assist the drainage of excess bronchial 
secretions. Efficiently executed, this is of great value 
both in reducing the amount of cough and sputum, and 
in preventing recurrent episodes of bronchopulmonary 
infection. Patients should lie in a position in which the 
lobe to be drained is uppermost. Deep breathing fol-
lowed by forced expiratory manœuvres (the ‘active cycle 
of breathing’ technique) helps to move secretions in the 
dilated bronchi towards the trachea, from which they 
can be cleared by vigorous coughing. Devices that 
increase airway pressure either by a constant amount 
(positive expiratory pressure mask) or in an oscillatory 
manner (flutter valve), aid sputum clearance in some 
patients, and a variety of techniques should be tried to 
find the one that suits the individual. The optimum 
duration and frequency of physiotherapy depend on the 
amount of sputum, but 5–10 minutes twice daily is a 
minimum for most patients.
19
R
L
Antibiotic therapy
For most patients with bronchiectasis, the appropriate 
antibiotics are the same as those used in COPD (p. 678) 
but larger doses and longer courses are required, and 
resolution of symptoms is often incomplete. When  
secondary infection occurs with staphylococci and  
Gram-negative bacilli, in particular Pseudomonas species, 
antibiotic therapy becomes more challenging and should 
be guided by the microbiological sensitivities. For  
Pseudomonas, oral ciprofloxacin (500–750 mg twice daily) 
or ceftazidime by intravenous injection or infusion 
(1–2 g 3 times daily) may be required. Haemoptysis in 
bronchiectasis often responds to treatment of the under-
lying infection, although, in severe cases, percutaneous 
embolisation of the bronchial circulation by an interven-
tional radiologist may be necessary.
Fig. 19.30 CT of bronchiectasis. Extensive dilatation of the bronchi, 
with thickened walls (arrows) in both lower lobes. 
are necessary to ensure appropriate treatment of resist-
ant organisms.
Bronchiectasis, unless very gross, is not usually 
apparent on a chest X-ray. In advanced disease, thick-
ened airway walls, cystic bronchiectatic spaces, and 
associated areas of pneumonic consolidation or collapse 
may be visible. CT is much more sensitive, and shows 
thickened, dilated airways (Fig. 19.30).
A screening test can be performed in patients sus-
Surgical treatment
Excision of bronchiectatic areas is only indicated in a 
small proportion of cases. These are usually patients in 
whom the bronchiectasis is confined to a single lobe or 
segment on CT. Unfortunately, many of the patients in 
whom medical treatment proves unsuccessful are  
also unsuitable for surgery because of either extensive 
bilateral bronchiectasis or coexisting severe airflow 
obstruction. In progressive forms of bronchiectasis, 
resection of destroyed areas of lung that are acting as a 
reservoir of infection should only be considered as a last 
resort.
Prognosis
The disease is progressive when associated with ciliary 
dysfunction and cystic fibrosis, and eventually causes 
respiratory failure. In other patients, the prognosis can 
be relatively good if physiotherapy is performed regu-
larly and antibiotics are used aggressively.
pected of having a ciliary dysfunction syndrome by 
measuring the time taken for a small pellet of saccharin 
placed in the anterior chamber of the nose to reach the 
pharynx, at which point the patient can taste it. This time 
should not exceed 20 minutes but is greatly prolonged 
in patients with ciliary dysfunction. Ciliary beat fre-
quency may also be assessed from biopsies taken from 
the nose. Structural abnormalities of cilia can be detected 
by electron microscopy.
Management
In patients with airflow obstruction, inhaled broncho-
dilators and corticosteroids should be used to enhance 
airway patency.
Prevention
As bronchiectasis commonly starts in childhood follow-
ing measles, whooping cough or a primary tuberculous 
infection, adequate prophylaxis for and treatment of 
these conditions are essential. The early recognition and 
treatment of bronchial obstruction are also important.
679
RespiRatoRy disease
Cystic fibrosis
19
amniocentesis may be offered to those known to be at 
high risk.
Clinical features
The lungs are macroscopically normal at birth, but bron-
chiolar inflammation and infections usually lead to bron-
chiectasis in childhood. At this stage, the lungs are most 
commonly infected with Staphylococcus aureus; however, 
in adulthood, many patients become colonised with Pseu-
domonas aeruginosa. Recurrent exacerbations of bron-
chiectasis, initially in the upper lobes but subsequently 
throughout both lungs, cause progressive lung damage, 
resulting ultimately in death from respiratory failure. 
Other clinical manifestations are shown in Box 19.38. 
Most men with CF are infertile due to failure of develop-
ment of the vas deferens, but microsurgical sperm  
19.38 Complications of cystic fibrosis
Respiratory
• Infective exacerbations of 
bronchiectasis
• Respiratory failure
• Cor pulmonale
• Lobar collapse due to 
Genetics, pathogenesis and epidemiology
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common fatal genetic 
disease in Caucasians, with autosomal recessive inherit-
ance, a carrier rate of 1 in 25, and an incidence of about 
1 in 2500 live births (pp. 48 and 53). CF is the result of 
mutations affecting a gene on the long arm of chromo-
some 7, which codes for a chloride channel known as 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator 
(CFTR); this influences salt and water movement across 
epithelial cell membranes. The most common CFTR 
mutation in northern European and American popula-
tions is ΔF508, but over a thousand mutations of this 
gene have now been identified. The genetic defect causes 
increased sodium and chloride content in sweat and 
increased resorption of sodium and water from respira-
tory epithelium (Fig. 19.31). Relative dehydration of the 
airway epithelium is thought to predispose to chronic 
bacterial infection and ciliary dysfunction, leading to 
bronchiectasis. The gene defect also causes disorders in 
the gut epithelium, pancreas, liver and reproductive 
tract (see below).
In the 1960s, few patients with CF survived child-
secretions
• Spontaneous pneumothorax
• Haemoptysis
• Nasal polyps
Gastrointestinal
• Malabsorption and 
• Biliary cirrhosis and portal 
steatorrhoea
hypertension
• Gallstones
• Distal intestinal obstruction 
syndrome
Others
• Diabetes (25% of adults)
• Delayed puberty
• Male infertility
• Stress incontinence due to 
• Psychosocial problems
• Osteoporosis
• Arthropathy
• Cutaneous vasculitis
repeated forced cough
hood, yet with aggressive treatment of airway infection 
and nutritional support, life expectancy has improved 
dramatically, so that there are now more adults than 
children with CF in many developed countries. Until 
recently, the diagnosis was most commonly made from 
the clinical picture (bowel obstruction, failure to thrive, 
steatorrhoea and/or chest symptoms in a young child), 
supported by sweat electrolyte testing and genotyping. 
Patients with unusual phenotypes were commonly 
missed, however, and late diagnosis led to poorer out-
comes. Neonatal screening for CF using immunoreactive 
trypsin and genetic testing of newborn blood samples is 
now routine in the UK, and should reduce delayed diag-
nosis and improve outcomes. Prenatal screening by 
Cystic fibrosis
Normal
A
B
Airway lumen
1
2
3
4
Apical surface
Chloride
ion
Sodium
ion
Chloride
ion
Sodium
ion
EPITHELIAL
CELL
cAMP
cAMP
Basal surface
Chloride
ion
Sodium
ion
Water
Chloride
ion
Sodium
ion
Water
β2-adrenoceptor
Fig. 19.31 Cystic fibrosis: basic defect in the pulmonary epithelium.  A The CF gene codes for a chloride channel (1) in the apical (luminal) 
membrane of epithelial cells in the conducting airways. This is normally controlled by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and indirectly by 
β-adrenoceptor stimulation, and is one of several apical ion channels which control the quantity and solute content of airway-lining fluid. Normal channels 
appear to inhibit the adjacent epithelial sodium channels (2).  B In cystic fibrosis, one of many CF gene defects causes absence or defective function of 
this chloride channel (3). This leads to reduced chloride secretion and loss of inhibition of sodium channels, with excessive sodium resorption (4) and 
dehydration of the airway lining. The resulting abnormal airway-lining fluid predisposes to infection by mechanisms still to be fully explained. 
680
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.40 Cystic fibrosis in adolescence
• Issues for the patient:
aspiration and in vitro fertilisation are possible. Geno-
type is a poor predictor of disease severity in individuals; 
even siblings with matching genotypes may have differ-
ent phenotypes. This suggests that other ‘modifier genes’, 
as yet unidentified, influence clinical outcome.
Move to adult CF centre – loss of trusted paediatric team
Feelings of being different from peers due to chronic 
illness
Demanding treatments that conflict with social and  
school life
Pressure to take responsibility for self-care
Relationship/fertility concerns
• Issues for the patient’s parents:
Loss of control over patient’s treatment – feeling excluded
Loss of trusted paediatric team
Need to develop trust in adult team
Feelings of helplessness when adolescent rebels or will 
not take treatment
• Issues for the CF team:
Management
Treatment of CF lung disease
The management of CF lung disease is that of severe 
bronchiectasis. All patients with CF who produce 
sputum should perform chest physiotherapy regularly, 
and more frequently during exacerbations. While infec-
tions with Staph. aureus can often be managed with 
oral antibiotics, intravenous treatment (frequently self-
administered at home through an implanted subcutane-
ous vascular port) is usually needed for Pseudomonas 
infections. Regular nebulised antibiotic therapy (colistin 
or tobramycin) is used between exacerbations in an 
attempt to suppress chronic Pseudomonas infection.
Unfortunately, the bronchi of many CF patients even-
Reluctance or refusal by patient to engage with transition
Management of deterioration due to non-adherence
Motivation of adolescents to self-care
Provision of adolescent-friendly health-care environment
19
requirements of CF patients are met by supplemental 
feeding, including nasogastric or gastrostomy tube 
feeding if required. Diabetes eventually develops in over 
25% of patients and often requires insulin therapy.  
Osteoporosis secondary to malabsorption and chronic ill 
health should be sought and treated.
Novel therapies for cystic fibrosis
Small molecules designed to correct the function of par-
ticular CFTR defects are being developed, and one 
(ivacaftor) gives significant clinical benefits in patients 
with the G551D mutation. Somatic gene therapy for CF 
is also under development. Manufactured normal copies 
of the CF gene are ‘packaged’ in liposomes or virus 
vectors and administered to the airways by aerosol inha-
lation. Trials are under way but more efficient gene 
delivery methods are needed to make this practical.
tually become colonised with pathogens that are resist-
ant to most antibiotics. Resistant strains of P. aeruginosa, 
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Burkholderia cepacia are 
the main culprits, and may require prolonged treatment 
with unusual combinations of antibiotics. Aspergillus 
and non-tuberculous mycobacteria are also frequently 
found in the sputum of CF patients but, in most cases, 
these behave as benign ‘colonisers’ of the bronchiectatic 
airways and do not require specific therapy. Some 
patients have coexistent asthma, which is treated with 
inhaled bronchodilators and corticosteroids; allergic 
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697) also occurs 
occasionally in CF.
Four maintenance treatments have been shown to 
cause modest rises in lung function and/or to reduce the 
frequency of chest exacerbations in CF patients (Box 
19.39). Individual responses are variable and should be 
carefully monitored to avoid burdening patients with 
treatments that prove ineffective.
For advanced CF lung disease, home oxygen and NIV 
may be necessary to treat respiratory failure. Ultimately, 
lung transplantation can produce dramatic improve-
ments but is limited by donor organ availability.
INFECTIONS OF THE  
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
Treatment of non-respiratory manifestations of CF
There is a clear link between good nutrition and  
prognosis in CF. Malabsorption due to exocrine pancre-
atic failure is treated with oral pancreatic enzymes  
and vitamin supplements. The increased caloric 
Infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract are  
a major cause of morbidity and mortality, particularly  
in patients at the extremes of age, and those with pre-
existing lung disease or immune suppression.
Upper respiratory tract infection
19.39 Treatments that reduce chest exacerbations 
and/or improve lung function in cystic fibrosis
Therapy
Patients treated
Age ≥ 5, FVC > 40% predicted
Nebulised recombinant 
human DNase 2.5 mg daily
Patients colonised with 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Nebulised tobramycin 
300 mg twice daily, given in 
alternate mths
Patients colonised with 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Regular oral azithromycin 
500 mg three times/wk
Age ≥ 6, FEV1 > 40% predicted
Nebulised hypertonic saline, 
4 mL 7%, twice daily
681
Upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs), such as 
coryza (the common cold), acute pharyngitis and acute 
tracheobronchitis, are the most common of all commu-
nicable diseases and represent the most frequent cause 
of short-term absenteeism from work and school. The 
vast majority are caused by viruses (p. 328) and, in 
adults, are usually short-lived and rarely serious.
Acute coryza is the most common URTI and is usually 
the result of rhinovirus infection. In addition to general 
malaise, acute coryza typically causes nasal discharge, 
sneezing and cough. Involvement of the pharynx results 
in a sore throat, that of the larynx a hoarse or lost voice. 
RespiRatoRy disease
19
If complicated by a tracheitis or bronchitis, chest tight-
ness and wheeze typical of asthma occur. Specific inves-
tigation is rarely warranted and treatment with simple 
analgesics, antipyretics and decongestants is all that is 
required. Symptoms usually resolve quickly, but if 
repeated URTIs ‘go to the chest’, a more formal diagno-
sis of asthma ought to be considered. A variety of viruses 
causing URTI may also trigger exacerbations of asthma 
or COPD and aggravate other lung diseases.
Bordetella pertussis, the cause of whooping cough, is 
an important source of URTI. It is highly contagious and 
is notifiable in the UK. Vaccination confers protection 
and is usually offered in infancy, but its efficacy wanes 
in adult life and the infection is easily spread. Adults 
usually experience a mild illness similar to acute coryza, 
but some individuals develop paroxysms of coughing 
which can persist for weeks to months, earning whoop-
ing cough the designation of ‘the cough of 100 days’.  
The diagnosis may be confirmed by bacterial culture, 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from a nasopharyngeal 
swab or serological testing. If the illness is recognised 
early in the clinical course, macrolide antibiotics may 
ameliorate the course.
Rhinosinusitis typically causes a combination of nasal 
congestion, blockage or discharge, and may be accom-
panied by facial pain/pressure or loss of smell. Exami-
nation usually confirms erythematous swollen nasal 
mucosa and pus may be evident. Nasal polyps should 
be sought and dental infection excluded. Treatment with 
topical corticosteroids, nasal decongestants and regular 
nasal douching are usually sufficient and, although bac-
terial infection is often present, antibiotics are only indi-
cated if symptoms persist for more than 5 days. Persistent 
symptoms or recurrent episodes should prompt a refer-
ral to an ear, nose and throat specialist.
Influenza is discussed on page 319.
Community-acquired pneumonia
Figures from the UK suggest that an estimated 5–11/1000 
adults suffer from community-acquired pneumonia 
(CAP) each year, accounting for around 5–12% of all 
lower respiratory tract infections. It affects all age groups 
but is particularly common at the extremes of age; 
worldwide, CAP continues to kill more children than 
any other illness, and its propensity to ease the passing 
of the frail and elderly led to pneumonia being known 
as the ‘old man’s friend’.
Most cases are spread by droplet infection and, whilst 
CAP may occur in previously healthy individuals, 
several factors may impair the effectiveness of local 
defences and predispose to CAP (Box 19.41). Streptococ-
cus pneumoniae (Fig. 19.32) remains the most common 
infecting agent. The likelihood that other organisms may 
be involved depends on the age of the patient and the 
clinical context. Viral infections are important causes of 
CAP in children, and their contribution to adult CAP is 
increasingly recognised (Box 19.42).
A ‘best guess’ as to the likely organism may be made 
from the context in which pneumonia develops, but not 
from the clinical and radiological picture, which does 
not differ sufficiently from one organism to another; the 
term ‘atypical pneumonia’ has therefore been dropped. 
Mycoplasma pneumoniae is more common in young 
people and rare in the elderly, whereas Haemophilus 
influenzae is more common in the elderly, particularly 
when underlying lung disease is present. Legionella pneu-
mophila occurs in local outbreaks centred on contami-
nated cooling towers in hotels, hospitals and other 
industrial buildings. Staphylococcus aureus is more 
common following an episode of influenza. Foreign 
travel raises the possibility of infections that might  
otherwise be unusual in the UK: for example, Burkholde-
ria pseudomallei from South-east Asia. Travel also facili-
tates the spread of illnesses such as severe acute 
Pneumonia
19.41 Factors that predispose to pneumonia
• Cigarette smoking
• Upper respiratory tract 
infections
• Alcohol
• Corticosteroid therapy
• Old age
• Recent influenza infection
• Pre-existing lung disease
• HIV
• Indoor air pollution
682
Fig. 19.32 Gram stain of sputum showing Gram-positive 
diplococci characteristic of Strep. pneumoniae (arrows). 
Pneumonia is as an acute respiratory illness asso-
ciated with recently developed radiological pulmonary  
shadowing, which may be segmental, lobar or multi-
lobar. The context in which pneumonia develops is 
highly indicative of the likely organism(s) involved; 
therefore, pneumonias are usually classified as commu-
nity- or hospital-acquired, or as occurring in immuno-
compromised hosts. ‘Lobar pneumonia’ is a radiological 
and pathological term referring to homogeneous con-
solidation of one or more lung lobes, often with associ-
ated pleural inflammation. ‘Bronchopneumonia’ refers 
to more patchy alveolar consolidation associated with 
bronchial and bronchiolar inflammation, often affecting 
both lower lobes.
The inflammatory response in lobar pneumonia 
evolves through stages of congestion, red then grey 
hepatisation, and finally resolution. In the first stage, the 
alveolar units are flooded by a proteinaceous exudate 
and by neutrophils and red blood cells, and numerous 
pneumococci may be observed. As fibrin forms on the 
cut surface of the affected lobe, it resembles liver and  
so this stage is known as ‘red hepatisation’. As conges-
tion resolves, the lung tissue becomes grey (‘grey  
hepatisation’), and ultimately, clearance and repair 
mechanisms restore the normal architecture of the lung.
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.42 Organisms causing community-acquired 
pneumonia
• Chlamydia psittaci
• Coxiella burnetii (Q fever, 
‘querry’ fever)
• Klebsiella pneumoniae 
(Freidländer’s bacillus)
Bacteria
• Streptococcus pneumoniae
• Mycoplasma pneumoniae
• Legionella pneumophila
• Chlamydia pneumoniae
• Haemophilus influenzae
• Staphylococcus aureus
• Actinomyces israelii
• Cytomegalovirus (CMV)
• Coronavirus (Urbani 
SARS-associated 
coronavirus)
Viruses
• Influenza, parainfluenza
• Measles
• Herpes simplex
• Varicella
• Adenovirus
(SARS = severe acute respiratory syndrome)
19
respiratory syndrome (SARS), caused by a form of 
corona virus arising in the Guangdong province of 
China, but which spread rapidly through Hong Kong 
and Vietnam, and then throughout the world. Certain 
occupations may be associated with exposure to specific 
bacteria (p. 715).
with lower lobe pneumonia or if there is associated 
hepatitis. Less typical presentations may be seen in the 
very young and the elderly.
On examination, the respiratory and pulse rate may 
be raised and the blood pressure low, while an assess-
ment of the mental state may reveal a delirium. These 
are important indicators of the severity of the illness 
(Fig. 19.33). Not all patients are pyrexial but this is  
a helpful diagnostic clue if present. Oxygen saturation 
on air may be low, and the patient cyanosed and 
distressed.
Chest signs (p. 645) vary, depending on the phase of 
the inflammatory response. When consolidated, the 
lung is typically dull to percussion and, as conduction 
of sound is enhanced, auscultation reveals bronchial 
breathing and whispering pectoriloquy; crackles are 
heard throughout. However, in many patients, signs are 
more subtle with reduced air entry only, but crackles  
are usually present.
An assessment of nutrition is important as, if poor, 
the response to treatment will be impaired, particularly 
in the elderly. On occasion, inferences as to the likely 
organism may be drawn from clinical examination. For 
example, the presence of herpes labialis may point to 
streptococcal infection, as may the finding of ‘rusty’ 
sputum. The presence of poor dental hygiene should 
prompt consideration of Klebsiella or Actinomyces israelii. 
The differential diagnosis of pneumonia is shown in  
Box 19.43.
19.43 Differential diagnosis of pneumonia
• Pulmonary infarction
• Pulmonary/pleural TB
• Pulmonary oedema (can be unilateral)
• Pulmonary eosinophilia (p. 713)
• Malignancy: bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma
• Rare disorders: cryptogenic organising pneumonia/
bronchiolitis obliterans organising pneumonia (COP/BOOP)  
(p. 708)
Clinical features
Pneumonia, particularly lobar pneumonia, usually 
presents as an acute illness. Systemic features such as 
fever, rigors, shivering and malaise predominate and 
delirium may be present. The appetite is invariably lost 
and headache frequently reported.
Pulmonary symptoms include cough, which at first 
is characteristically short, painful and dry, but later 
accompanied by the expectoration of mucopurulent 
sputum. Rust-coloured sputum may be seen in patients 
with Strep. pneumoniae, and the occasional individual 
may report haemoptysis. Pleuritic chest pain may be a 
presenting feature and, on occasion, may be referred  
to the shoulder or anterior abdominal wall. Upper 
abdominal tenderness is sometimes apparent in patients 
Any of:
 • Confusion*
 • Urea > 7 mmol/L
 • Respiratory rate > 30/min
 • Blood pressure (systolic < 90 mmHg or diastolic < 60 mmHg)
 • Age > 65 years
Score 1 point for each feature present
CURB- 65 score
2
3 or
more
0 or 1
Likely to be suitable for
home treatment
Manage in hospital as
severe pneumonia
Assess for ICU admission,
especially if CURB-65
score = 4 or 5
Consider hospital-supervised
treatment
Options may include
• Short-stay inpatient
• Hospital-supervised outpatient
Fig. 19.33 Hospital CURB-65. *Defined as a Mental Test Score of 8 or less, or new disorientation in person, place or time. ( Urea of 7 mmol/L ≅ 
20 mg/dL.) 
683
RespiRatoRy disease
A
19.44 Investigations in CAP
19
Blood
Full blood count
• Very high (> 20 × 109/L) or low (< 4 × 109/L) white cell 
count: marker of severity
• Neutrophil leucocytosis > 15 × 109/L: suggests bacterial 
aetiology
B
• Haemolytic anaemia: occasional complication of Mycoplasma
Urea and electrolytes
• Urea > 7 mmol/L (~20 mg/dL): marker of severity
• Hyponatraemia: marker of severity
Liver function tests
• Abnormal if basal pneumonia inflames liver
• Hypoalbuminaemia: marker of severity
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate/C-reactive protein
• Non-specifically elevated
Blood culture
• Bacteraemia: marker of severity
Serology
• Acute and convalescent titres for Mycoplasma, Chlamydia, 
Legionella and viral infections
Cold agglutinins
• Positive in 50% of patients with Mycoplasma
Arterial blood gases
• Measure when SaO2 < 93% or when severe clinical features 
to assess ventilatory failure or acidosis
Sputum
Sputum samples
• Gram stain (see Fig. 19.32), culture and antimicrobial 
sensitivity testing
Oropharynx swab
• PCR for Mycoplasma pneumoniae and other atypical 
pathogens
Urine
• Pneumococcal and/or Legionella antigen
Chest X-ray
Fig. 19.34 Pneumonia of the right middle lobe.  A PA view: 
consolidation in the right middle lobe with characteristic opacification 
beneath the horizontal fissure and loss of normal contrast between the 
right heart border and lung.  B Lateral view: consolidation confined to the 
anteriorly situated middle lobe. 
Lobar pneumonia
• Patchy opacification evolves into homogeneous consolidation 
of affected lobe
• Air bronchogram (air-filled bronchi appear lucent against 
consolidated lung tissue) may be present (see Fig. 19.34)
moderate CAP can be successfully managed without 
identification of the organism, a range of microbiological 
tests should be performed on patients with severe CAP.
Bronchopneumonia
• Typically patchy and segmental shadowing
Complications
• Para-pneumonic effusion, intrapulmonary abscess or 
Management
The most important aspects of management are oxy-
genation, fluid balance and antibiotic therapy. In  
severe or prolonged illness, nutritional support may be 
required.
empyema
Staph. aureus
• Suggested by multilobar shadowing, cavitation, 
pneumatocoeles and abscesses
Pleural fluid
• Always aspirate and culture when present in more than trivial 
amounts, preferably with ultrasound guidance
684
Oxygen
Oxygen should be administered to all patients with 
tachy pnoea, hypoxaemia, hypotension or acidosis, with 
the aim of maintaining the PaO2 at or above 8 kPa 
(60 mmHg) or the SaO2 at or above 92%. High concentra-
tions (35% or more), preferably humidified, should be 
used in all patients who do not have hypercapnia associ-
ated with COPD. Continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP) should be considered in those who remain 
hypoxic despite this, and these patients should be 
managed in a high-dependency or intensive care envi-
ronment, where mechanical ventilation can be rapidly 
Investigations
The aims of investigation (Box 19.44) are to confirm the 
diagnosis and exclude other conditions, assess the sever-
ity and identify the development of complications. 
Typical chest X-ray findings in a lobar pneumonia are 
shown in Figure 19.34. Whilst many cases of mild to 
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.45 Indications for referral to ITU
19.47 Complications of pneumonia
• CURB score of 4–5, failing to respond rapidly to initial 
management
• Persisting hypoxia (PaO2 < 8 kPa (60 mmHg)), despite high 
concentrations of oxygen
• Progressive hypercapnia
• Severe acidosis
• Circulatory shock
• Reduced conscious level
• Para-pneumonic effusion – common
• Empyema (p. 662)
• Retention of sputum causing lobar collapse
• Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism
• Pneumothorax, particularly with Staph. aureus
• Suppurative pneumonia/lung abscess
• ARDS, renal failure, multi-organ failure (p. 192)
• Ectopic abscess formation (Staph. aureus)
• Hepatitis, pericarditis, myocarditis, meningoencephalitis
• Pyrexia due to drug hypersensitivity
employed. Indications for referral to the intensive 
therapy unit (ITU) are summarised in Box 19.45.
Intravenous fluids
These should be considered in patients with severe 
illness, older patients and those who are vomiting.  
Otherwise, an adequate oral intake of fluid should  
be encouraged. Inotropic support may be required  
in patients with shock (p. 190).
19
paracetamol, co-codamol or NSAIDs is sufficient. In 
some patients, opiates may be required but these must 
be used with extreme caution in patients with poor res-
piratory function, as they may suppress ventilation. 
Physiotherapy is not usually indicated in patients with 
CAP, but may help expectoration in those who suppress 
cough because of pleural pain.
Most patients respond promptly to antibiotic therapy. 
However, fever may persist for several days and the 
chest X-ray often takes several weeks or even months to 
resolve, especially in old age. Delayed recovery suggests 
either that a complication has occurred (Box 19.47), that 
the diagnosis is incorrect (see Box 19.43) or, alterna-
tively, that the pneumonia may be secondary to a proxi-
mal bronchial obstruction or recurrent aspiration. The 
mortality rate of adults with non-severe pneumonia is 
very low (< 1%); hospital death rates are typically 
between 5 and 10% but may be as high as 50% in severe 
illness.
Antibiotics
Prompt administration of antibiotics improves the 
outcome. The initial choice of antibiotic is guided by 
clinical context, severity assessment, local knowledge of 
antibiotic resistance patterns and any available epi-
demiological information. Current regimens are detailed 
in Box 19.46. In most patients with uncomplicated pneu-
monia, a 7-day course is adequate, although treatment 
is usually required for longer in those with Legionella, 
staphylococcal or Klebsiella pneumonia. Oral antibiotics 
are usually adequate unless the patient has a severe 
illness, impaired consciousness, loss of swallowing 
reflex, or functional or anatomical reasons for 
malabsorption.
It is important to relieve pleural pain, as it may 
prevent the patient from breathing normally and cough-
ing efficiently. For the majority, simple analgesia with 
19.46 Antibiotic treatment for CAP*
Discharge and follow-up
The decision to discharge patients depends on  
their home circumstances and the likelihood of compli-
cations. A chest X-ray need not be repeated before dis-
charge in those making a satisfactory clinical recovery. 
Clinical review should be arranged around 6 weeks later 
and a chest X-ray obtained if there are persistent symp-
toms, physical signs or reasons to suspect under lying 
malignancy.
Uncomplicated CAP
• Amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily orally
If patient is allergic to penicillin
• Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily orally or Erythromycin 
500 mg 4 times daily orally
If Staphylococcus is cultured or suspected
• Flucloxacillin 1–2 g 4 times daily IV plus
• Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily IV
If Mycoplasma or Legionella is suspected
• Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily orally or IV or 
Erythromycin 500 mg 4 times daily orally IV plus
Prevention
Current smokers should be advised to stop. Influenza 
and pneumococcal vaccination should be considered in 
selected patients (p. 148). Because of the mode of spread, 
Legionella pneumophila has important public health impli-
cations and usually requires notification to the appropri-
ate health authority. In developing countries, tackling 
malnourishment and indoor air pollution, and encour-
aging immunisation against measles, pertussis and Hae-
mophilus influenzae type b are particularly important in 
children.
• Rifampicin 600 mg twice daily IV in severe cases
Severe CAP
• Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily IV or Erythromycin 
500 mg 4 times daily IV plus
• Co-amoxiclav 1.2 g 3 times daily IV or Ceftriaxone 1–2 g 
daily IV or Cefuroxime 1.5 g 3 times daily IV or
• Amoxicillin 1 g 4 times daily IV plus flucloxacillin 2 g 4 times 
daily IV
*Adapted from British Thoracic Society Guidelines.
685
Hospital-acquired pneumonia
Hospital-acquired or nosocomial pneumonia is a new 
episode of pneumonia occurring at least 2 days after 
admission to hospital. It is the second most common 
hospital-acquired infection (HAI) and the leading cause 
of HAI-associated death. The elderly are particularly at 
risk, along with patients in intensive care units, espe-
cially when mechanically ventilated; in the latter case, 
RespiRatoRy disease
19.49 Respiratory infection in old age
19
19.48 Factors predisposing to hospital-acquired 
pneumonia
• Increased risk of and from respiratory infection: because 
Reduced host defences against bacteria
• Reduced immune defences (e.g. corticosteroid treatment, 
diabetes, malignancy)
of reduced immune responses, increased closing volumes, 
reduced respiratory muscle strength and endurance, altered 
mucus layer, poor nutritional status and the increased 
prevalence of chronic lung disease.
• Predisposing factors: other medical conditions may 
• Reduced cough reflex (e.g. post-operative)
• Disordered mucociliary clearance (e.g. anaesthetic agents)
• Bulbar or vocal cord palsy
predispose to infection, e.g. swallowing difficulties due to 
stroke increase the risk of aspiration pneumonia.
• Atypical presentation: older patients often present with 
Aspiration of nasopharyngeal or gastric secretions
• Immobility or reduced conscious level
• Vomiting, dysphagia (N.B. stroke disease), achalasia or 
confusion, rather than breathlessness or cough.
severe reflux
• Mortality: the vast majority of deaths from pneumonia in 
• Nasogastric intubation
developed countries occur in older people.
• Influenza: has a much higher complication rate, morbidity 
and mortality. Vaccination significantly reduces morbidity and 
mortality in old age but uptake is poor.
• TB: most cases in old age represent reactivation of previous, 
Bacteria introduced into lower respiratory tract
• Endotracheal intubation/tracheostomy
• Infected ventilators/nebulisers/bronchoscopes
• Dental or sinus infection
often unrecognised disease and may be precipitated by 
steroid therapy, diabetes mellitus and the factors above. 
Cryptic miliary TB is an occasional alternative presentation. 
Older people more commonly suffer adverse effects from 
antituberculous chemotherapy and require close monitoring.
Bacteraemia
• Abdominal sepsis
• IV cannula infection
• Infected emboli
protected brush specimens, bronchoalveolar lavage 
(BAL) or endotracheal aspirates may be obtained.
the term ‘ventilator-associated pneumonia’ (VAP) is 
used. Healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP) is the 
development of pneumonia in a person who has spent 
at least 2 days in hospital within the last 90 days, or has 
attended a haemodialysis unit, received intravenous 
antibiotics, or been resident in a nursing home or other 
long-term care facility. The factors predisposing to the 
development of pneumonia in a hospitalised patient  
are listed in Box 19.48. The organisms implicated in 
early-onset HAP (occurring within 4–5 days of  
admission) are similar to those involved in CAP. Late-
onset HAP is associated with a different range of patho-
gens to CAP, with more Gram-negative bacteria (e.g. 
Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Klebsiella species and Acineto-
bacter baumannii), Staph. aureus (including the meticillin-
resistant type (MRSA)) and anaerobes.
Management
The principles of management are similar to those for 
CAP, focusing on adequate oxygenation, appropriate 
fluid balance and antibiotics. However, the choice of 
empirical antibiotic therapy is considerably more chal-
lenging, given the diversity of pathogens and the poten-
tial for drug resistance.
In early-onset HAP, patients who have received no 
previous antibiotics can be treated with co-amoxiclav or 
cefuroxime. If the patient has received a course of recent 
antibiotics, then piperacillin/tazobactam or a third-
generation cephalosporin should be considered.
In late-onset HAP, the choice of antibiotics must 
cover the Gram-negative bacteria (see above), Staph. 
aureus 
(including 
MRSA) 
and 
anaerobes. 
Anti-
pseudomonal cover may be provided by a carbapenem 
(meropenem) or a third-generation cephalosporin com-
bined with an aminoglycoside. MRSA cover may be 
provided by glycopeptides, such as vancomycin or lin-
ezolid. A. baumannii is usually sensitive to carbapenems 
but resistant cases may require the prolonged adminis-
tration of nebulised colistin. The choice of agents is most 
appropriately guided by knowledge of local patterns of 
microbiology and antibiotic resistance. It is usual to 
commence broad-based cover, discontinuing less appro-
priate antibiotics as culture results become available. In 
the absence of good evidence, the duration of antibiotic 
therapy remains a matter for clinical judgement.
Physiotherapy is important to aid expectoration in 
the immobile and elderly, and nutritional support is 
often required.
686
Prevention
Despite appropriate management, the mortality from 
HAP is approximately 30%, so prevention is very impor-
tant. Good hygiene is paramount, particularly with 
Clinical features and investigations
The diagnosis should be considered in any hospitalised 
or ventilated patient who develops purulent sputum (or 
endotracheal secretions), new radiological infiltrates, an 
otherwise unexplained increase in oxygen requirement, 
a core temperature of more than 38.3°C, and a leuco-
cytosis or leucopenia. However, the clinical features and 
radiographic signs are variable and non-specific, raising 
a broad differential diagnosis that includes venous 
thromboembolism, ARDS, pulmonary oedema, pulmo-
nary haemorrhage and drug toxicity. Therefore, in con-
trast to CAP, microbiological confirmation should be 
sought whenever possible. As in CAP, the full blood 
count (FBC), urea and electrolytes (U&E), erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), 
and arterial blood gas samples should be sent for analy-
sis and a chest X-ray performed, but other investigations 
and imaging may be necessary to exclude other condi-
tions. Adequate sputum samples may be difficult  
to obtain in frail elderly patients and physiotherapy 
should be considered to aid expectoration. In patients 
who are mechanically ventilated, bronchoscopy-directed 
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.50 Clinical features of suppurative pneumonia
Symptoms
• Cough with large amounts of sputum, sometimes fetid and 
blood-stained
• Pleural pain common
• Sudden expectoration of copious amounts of foul sputum if 
abscess ruptures into a bronchus
regard to handwashing and any equipment used. The 
risk of aspiration should be minimised, and the use of 
stress ulcer prophylaxis with proton pump inhibitors 
limited, as they may increase the risk of ventilator-
associated pneumonia. Oral antiseptic (chlorhexidine 
2%) may be used to decontaminate the upper airway, 
and some intensive care units employ selective decon-
tamination of the digestive tract when the anticipated 
requirement for ventilation will exceed 48 hours.
Clinical signs
• High remittent pyrexia
• Profound systemic upset
• Digital clubbing may develop quickly (10–14 days)
• Consolidation on chest examination; signs of cavitation rarely 
found
• Pleural rub common
• Rapid deterioration in general health, with marked weight 
loss if not adequately treated
19
A non-infective form of aspiration pneumonia – 
exogenous lipid pneumonia – may follow the aspiration 
of animal, vegetable, or mineral oils.
The clinical features of suppurative pneumonia are 
summarised in Box 19.50.
Investigations and management
Radiological features of suppurative pneumonia include 
homogeneous lobar or segmental opacity consistent 
with consolidation or collapse. Abscesses are character-
ised by cavitation and fluid level. Occasionally, a pre-
existing emphysematous bulla becomes infected and 
appears as a cavity containing an air–fluid level.
Aspiration pneumonia can be treated with intra-
Suppurative pneumonia, aspiration 
pneumonia and pulmonary abscess
These conditions are considered together, as their  
aetiology and clinical features overlap. Suppurative 
pneumonia is characterised by destruction of the lung 
parenchyma by the inflammatory process and, although 
microabscess formation is a characteristic histological 
feature, ‘pulmonary abscess’ is usually taken to refer to 
lesions in which there is a large localised collection of 
pus, or a cavity lined by chronic inflammatory tissue, 
from which pus has escaped by rupture into a 
bronchus.
Suppurative pneumonia and pulmonary abscess 
often develop after the inhalation of septic material 
during operations on the nose, mouth or throat under 
general anaesthesia, or of vomitus during anaesthesia or 
coma, particularly if oral hygiene is poor. Additional 
risk factors for aspiration pneumonia include bulbar or 
vocal cord palsy, stroke, achalasia or oesophageal reflux, 
and alcoholism. Aspiration tends to localise to depend-
ent areas of the lung, such as the apical segment of the 
lower lobe in a supine patient. Suppurative pneumonia 
and pulmonary abscess may also complicate local bron-
chial obstruction from a neoplasm or foreign body.
Infections are usually due to a mixture of anaerobes 
and aerobes in common with the typical flora encoun-
tered in the mouth and upper respiratory tract. Isolates 
of Bacteroides melaninogenicus, Fusobacterium necrophorum, 
anaerobic or micro-aerophilic cocci, and Bacteroides fragi-
lis may be identified. When suppurative pneumonia or 
a pulmonary abscess occurs in a previously healthy 
lung, the most likely infecting organism is Staph. aureus 
or Klebsiella pneumoniae.
Bacterial infection of a pulmonary infarct or a col-
venous co-amoxiclav 1.2 g 3 times daily. If an anaerobic 
bacterial infection is suspected (e.g. from fetor of the 
sputum), oral metronidazole 400 mg 3 times daily 
should be added. Further modification of antibiotics 
may be required, depending on the clinical response and 
the microbiological results. CA-MRSA is usually suscep-
tible to a variety of oral non-β-lactam antibiotics, such 
as trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, clindamycin, tetra-
cyclines and linezolid. Parenteral therapy with vanco-
mycin or daptomycin can also be considered. F. 
necrophorum is highly susceptible to β-lactam antibiotics, 
and to metronidazole, clindamycin and third-generation 
cephalosporins. Prolonged treatment for 4–6 weeks may 
be required in some patients with lung abscess. Physio-
therapy is of great value, especially when suppuration 
is present in the lower lobes or when a large abscess 
cavity has formed.
In most patients, there is a good response to treat-
ment and, although residual fibrosis and bronchiectasis 
are common sequelae, these seldom give rise to serious 
morbidity. Surgery should be contemplated if no 
improvement occurs, despite optimal medical therapy. 
Removal or treatment of any obstructing endobronchial 
lesion is essential.
lapsed lobe may also produce a suppurative pneumonia 
or lung abscess. The organisms isolated from the sputum 
include Strep. pneumoniae, Staph. aureus, Strep. pyogenes, 
H. influenzae and, in some cases, anaerobic bacteria. In 
many cases, however, no pathogen can be isolated, par-
ticularly when antibiotics have been given.
Strains of community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA) 
produce the cytotoxin Panton–Valentine leukocidin. The 
organism is mainly responsible for suppurative skin 
infection but may be associated with rapidly progres-
sive, severe, necrotising pneumonia.
Lemierre’s syndrome is a rare cause of pulmonary 
abscesses. The usual causative agent is the anaerobe, F. 
necrophorum. The illness typically commences as a sore 
throat, painful swollen neck, fever, rigor, haemoptysis 
and dyspnoea, and spread into the jugular veins leads 
to thrombosis and metastatic spread of the organisms.
Injecting drug-users are at particular risk of develop-
687
Pneumonia in the 
immunocompromised patient
Patients immunocompromised by drugs or disease  
(particularly HIV, p. 400) are at high risk of pulmonary 
infection. The majority of cases are caused by  
the 
same 
pathogens 
that 
cause 
pneumonia 
in  
ing haematogenous lung abscess, often in association 
with endocarditis affecting the pulmonary and tricuspid 
valves.
RespiRatoRy disease
19
• Cavitation may be seen with N. asteroides, 
mycobacteria and fungi.
19.51 Causes of immune suppression-associated 
lung infection
• The presence of a ‘halo sign’ may suggest 
Causes
Infecting organisms
Aspergillus (see Fig. 19.45, p. 698).
• Pleural effusions suggest a pyogenic bacterial 
infection and are uncommon in P. jirovecii pneumonia.
Defective 
phagocytic 
function
Acute leukaemia
Cytotoxic drugs
Agranulocytosis
Gram-positive bacteria, 
including Staph. 
aureus
Gram-negative bacteria
Fungi, e.g. Candida 
albicans and 
Aspergillus fumigatus
Defects in 
cell-mediated 
immunity
Immunosuppressive 
drugs
Cytotoxic 
chemotherapy
Lymphoma
Thymic aplasia
Management
In theory, treatment should be based on the identified 
causative organism but, in practice, this is frequently 
unknown and broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is 
required, such as a third-generation cephalosporin or a 
quinolone, plus an antistaphylococcal antibiotic, or an 
antipseudomonal penicillin plus an aminoglycoside.
Thereafter, treatment may be tailored according to 
the results of investigations and the clinical response. 
These may dictate the addition of antifungal or antiviral 
therapies. The management of P. jirovecii infection is 
detailed on page 400, and that of invasive aspergillosis 
on page 698.
Viruses
Cytomegalovirus
Herpesvirus
Adenovirus
Influenza
Fungi
Pneumocystis 
jirovecii (formerly 
carinii)
Candida albicans
Aspergillus fumigatus
Tuberculosis
Defects in 
antibody 
production
Multiple myeloma
Chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia
Haemophilus 
influenzae
Mycoplasma 
pneumoniae
non-immunocompromised individuals, but in patients  
with more profound immunosuppression, unusual 
organisms or those normally considered to be of low 
virulence or non-pathogenic may become ‘opportunis-
tic’ pathogens (Box 19.51). Therefore, the possibility of 
Gram-negative bacteria, especially Pseudomonas aerugi-
nosa, viral agents, fungi, mycobacteria, and less common 
organisms such as Nocardia asteroides has to be consid-
ered. Infection is often due to more than one organism.
Epidemiology
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by infection with Mycobacte-
rium tuberculosis (MTB), which is part of a complex of 
organisms including M. bovis (reservoir cattle) and M. 
africanum (reservoir human). Recent figures suggest a 
decline in the incidence of TB, but its impact on world 
health remains significant. In 2010, an estimated  
8.8 million incident cases occurred and TB was esti-
mated to account for nearly 1.5 million deaths, making 
it the second most common cause of death due to an 
infective disease. Furthermore, it is estimated that 
around one-third of the world’s population has latent 
TB. The majority of cases occur in the world’s poorest 
nations, who struggle to cover the costs associated with 
management and control programmes (Fig. 19.35). In 
Africa, the resurgence of TB has been largely driven by 
HIV disease and, in the former Soviet Union and Baltic 
states, by a lack of appropriate health care associated 
with social and political upheaval.
Clinical features
These typically include fever, cough and breathlessness, 
but are influenced by the degree of immunosuppression; 
symptoms are less specific in the more profoundly 
immunosuppressed. The speed of onset tends to be less 
rapid in patients with opportunistic organisms such as 
Pneumocystis jirovecii and mycobacterial infections than 
with bacterial infections (p. 400). In P. jirovecii pneumo-
nia, symptoms of cough and breathlessness can be 
present for several days or weeks before the onset of 
systemic symptoms or the appearance of X-ray abnor-
malities. The clinical features of invasive pulmonary 
aspergillosis are described on page 698.
Diagnosis
The approach is informed by the clinical context and 
severity of the illness. Invasive investigations, such as 
bronchoscopy, BAL, transbronchial biopsy or surgical 
lung biopsy, are often impractical, as many patients are 
too ill to undergo these safely. However, ‘induced 
sputum’ (p. 652) offers a relatively safe method of 
obtaining microbiological samples. HRCT is useful in 
differentiating the likely cause:
• Focal unilateral airspace opacification favours 
bacterial infection, mycobacteria or Nocardia.
688
• Bilateral opacification favours P. jirovecii 
pneumonia, fungi, viruses and unusual bacteria, e.g. 
Nocardia.
Pathology and pathogenesis
M. bovis infection arises from drinking non-sterilised 
milk from infected cows. M. tuberculosis is spread by the 
inhalation of aerosolised droplet nuclei from other 
infected patients. Once inhaled, the organisms lodge in 
the alveoli and initiate the recruitment of macrophages 
and lymphocytes. Macrophages undergo transforma-
tion into epithelioid and Langhans cells, which aggre-
gate with the lymphocytes to form the classical 
tuberculous granuloma (Fig. 19.36). Numerous granulo-
mas aggregate to form a primary lesion or ‘Ghon focus’ 
(a pale yellow, caseous nodule, usually a few millimetres 
to 1–2 cm in diameter), which is characteristically situ-
ated in the periphery of the lung. Spread of organisms 
to the hilar lymph nodes is followed by a similar patho-
logical reaction, and the combination of the primary 
lesion and regional lymph nodes is referred to as the 
‘primary complex of Ranke’. Reparative processes 
encase the primary complex in a fibrous capsule, limit-
ing the spread of bacilli: so-called latent TB (p. 695). If 
no further complications ensue, this lesion eventually 
Infections of the respiratory system 
25–49
0–24
50–99
100–299
≥ 300
No estimate
Fig. 19.35 Worldwide incidence of tuberculosis. Estimated new cases (all forms) per 100 000 population (WHO). From Maartens and Wilkinson 
2007 – see p. 732.
19
2
1
4
3
Fig. 19.36 Tuberculous granuloma. Normal lung tissue is lost and 
replaced by a mass of fibrous tissue with granulomatous inflammation 
characterised by large numbers of macrophages and multinucleate giant 
cells (white arrow). The central area of this focus shows caseous 
degeneration (black arrow). 
Fig. 19.37 Primary pulmonary TB. (1) Spread from the primary focus 
to hilar and mediastinal lymph glands to form the ‘primary complex’, which 
in most cases heals spontaneously. (2) Direct extension of the primary 
focus – progressive pulmonary TB. (3) Spread to the pleura – tuberculous 
pleurisy and pleural effusion. (4) Blood-borne spread: few bacilli 
– pulmonary, skeletal, renal, genitourinary infection, often months or years 
later; massive spread – miliary TB and meningitis. 
develop a self-limiting febrile illness but clinical disease 
only occurs if there is a hypersensitivity reaction or  
progressive infection (Box 19.54). Progressive primary 
disease may appear during the course of the initial 
illness or after a latent period of weeks or months.
calcifies and is clearly seen on a chest X-ray. However, 
lymphatic or haematogenous spread may occur before 
immunity is established, seeding secondary foci in other 
organs, including lymph nodes, serous membranes, 
meninges, bones, liver, kidneys and lungs, which may 
lie dormant for years. The only clue that infection has 
occurred may be the appearance of a cell-mediated, 
delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to tuberculin, 
demonstrated by tuberculin skin testing. If these repara-
tive processes fail, primary progressive disease ensues 
(Fig. 19.37). The estimated lifetime risk of developing 
disease after primary infection is 10%, with roughly half 
of this risk occurring in the first 2 years after infection. 
Factors predisposing to TB are summarised in Box 19.52 
and the natural history of infection with TB is summa-
rised in Box 19.53.
689
Clinical features: pulmonary disease
Primary pulmonary TB
Primary TB refers to the infection of a previously unin-
fected (tuberculin-negative) individual. A few patients 
Miliary TB
Blood-borne dissemination gives rise to miliary TB, 
which may present acutely but more frequently is char-
acterised by 2–3 weeks of fever, night sweats, anorexia, 
weight loss and a dry cough. Hepatospleno megaly may 
develop and the presence of a headache may indicate 
coexistent tuberculous meningitis. Auscultation of the 
chest is frequently normal, but in more advanced 
disease, widespread crackles are evident. Fundoscopy 
may show choroidal tubercles. The classical appearances 
on chest X-ray are of fine 1–2 mm lesions (‘millet seed’) 
distributed throughout the lung fields, although occa-
sionally the appearances are coarser. Anaemia and 
RespiRatoRy disease
19.52 Factors increasing the risk of TB
19.55 Cryptic TB
19
• Age over 60 yrs
• Intermittent low-grade pyrexia of unknown origin
• Unexplained weight loss, general debility 
(hepatosplenomegaly in 25–50%)
Patient-related
• Age (children > young adults < elderly)
• First-generation immigrants from high-prevalence countries
• Close contacts of patients with smear-positive pulmonary TB
• Overcrowding (prisons, collective dormitories); homelessness 
(doss houses and hostels)
• Normal chest X-ray
• Blood dyscrasias; leukaemoid reaction, pancytopenia
• Negative tuberculin skin test
• Confirmation by biopsy with granulomas and/or acid-fast 
bacilli in liver or bone marrow
• Chest X-ray evidence of self-healed TB
• Primary infection < 1 yr previously
• Smoking: cigarettes and bidis (Indian cigarettes made of 
tobacco wrapped in temburini leaves)
Associated diseases
• Immunosuppression: HIV, anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) 
therapy, high-dose corticosteroids, cytotoxic agents
leucopenia reflect bone marrow involvement. ‘Cryptic’ 
miliary TB is an unusual presentation sometimes seen in 
old age (Box 19.55).
• Malignancy (especially lymphoma and leukaemia)
• Diabetes mellitus
• Chronic kidney disease
• Silicosis
• Gastrointestinal disease associated with malnutrition 
(gastrectomy, jejuno-ileal bypass, cancer of the pancreas, 
malabsorption)
• Deficiency of vitamin D or A
• Recent measles in children
19.53 Natural history of untreated primary TB
Time from infection
Manifestations
3–8 wks
Primary complex, positive tuberculin 
skin test
3–6 mths
Meningeal, miliary and pleural disease
Up to 3 yrs
Gastrointestinal, bone and joint, and 
lymph node disease
Around 8 yrs
Renal tract disease
From 3 yrs onwards
Post-primary disease due to 
reactivation or re-infection
Post-primary pulmonary TB
Post-primary disease refers to exogenous (‘new’ infec-
tion) or endogenous (reactivation of a dormant primary 
lesion) infection in a person who has been sensitised by 
earlier exposure. It is most frequently pulmonary and 
characteristically occurs in the apex of an upper lobe, 
where the oxygen tension favours survival of the strictly 
aerobic organism. The onset is usually insidious, devel-
oping slowly over several weeks. Systemic symptoms 
include fever, night sweats, malaise, and loss of appetite 
and weight, and are accompanied by progressive pul-
monary symptoms (Box 19.56). Very occasionally, this 
form of TB may present with one of the complications 
listed in Box 19.57. Radiological changes include ill-
defined opacification in one or both of the upper lobes, 
and as progression occurs, consolidation, collapse and 
cavitation develop to varying degrees (Fig. 19.38). It is 
often difficult to distinguish active from quiescent 
disease on radiological criteria alone, but the presence 
of a miliary pattern or cavitation favours active disease. 
In extensive disease, collapse may be marked and results 
in significant displacement of the trachea and mediasti-
num. Occasionally, a caseous lymph node may drain 
into an adjoining bronchus, leading to tuberculous 
pneumonia.
Adapted from Grange JM. In: Davies PDO, ed. Clinical tuberculosis. London: 
Hodder Arnold; 1998.
Clinical features: extrapulmonary disease
Extrapulmonary tuberculosis accounts for about 20% of 
cases in those who are HIV-negative but is more common 
in HIV-positive individuals.
19.54 Features of primary TB
Infection (4–8 wks)
• Influenza-like illness
• Primary complex
• Skin test conversion
Disease
• Lymphadenopathy: hilar 
(often unilateral), 
paratracheal or mediastinal
• Collapse (especially right 
middle lobe)
• Obstructive emphysema
• Cavitation (rare)
• Pleural effusion
• Miliary
• Meningitis
• Pericarditis
• Consolidation (especially 
right middle lobe)
Hypersensitivity
• Erythema nodosum
• Dactylitis
• Phlyctenular conjunctivitis
690
Lymphadenitis
Lymph nodes are the most common extrapulmonary 
site of disease. Cervical and mediastinal glands are 
affected most frequently, followed by axillary and 
inguinal, and more than one region may be involved. 
Disease may represent primary infection, spread from 
contiguous sites, or reactivation. Supraclavicular lym-
phadenopathy is often the result of spread from medi-
astinal disease. The nodes are usually painless and 
initially mobile but become matted together with time. 
When caseation and liquefaction occur, the swelling 
becomes fluctuant and may discharge through the skin 
with the formation of a ‘collar-stud’ abscess and sinus 
formation. Approximately half of cases fail to show  
any constitutional features, such as fevers or night 
sweats. The tuberculin test is usually strongly positive. 
During or after treatment, paradoxical enlargement, 
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.56 Clinical presentations of pulmonary TB
• Chronic cough, often with 
• Asymptomatic (diagnosis 
haemoptysis
on chest X-ray)
• Weight loss, general 
debility
Cavitation
Differential diagnosis
• Pneumonia/lung abscess
• Lung cancer
• Pulmonary infarct
• Granulomatosis with polyangiitis
   (Wegener’s granulomatosis)
• Progressive massive fibrosis
• Pyrexia of unknown origin
• Unresolved pneumonia
• Exudative pleural effusion
• Spontaneous pneumothorax
Consolidation/collapse
Differential diagnosis
• Pneumonia
• Bronchial carcinoma
• Pulmonary infarct
19.57 Chronic complications of pulmonary TB
Pulmonary
• Massive haemoptysis
• Cor pulmonale
• Fibrosis/emphysema
• Atypical mycobacterial 
infection
• Aspergilloma
• Lung/pleural calcification
• Obstructive airways disease
• Bronchiectasis
• Bronchopleural fistula
Non-pulmonary
• Empyema necessitans
• Laryngitis
• Enteritis*
• Anorectal disease*
• Amyloidosis
• Poncet’s polyarthritis
19
*From swallowed sputum.
Pleural effusion/empyema
Differential diagnosis
• Bacterial pneumonia
• Pulmonary infarction
• Carcinoma 
• Connective tissue disorder
‘Miliary’ diffuse shadowing
Differential diagnosis
• Sarcoidosis
• Malignancy
• Pneumoconiosis
• Infection (e.g. histoplasmosis
 infection)
granulomas. Occasionally, patients may be frankly 
icteric, with a mixed hepatic/cholestatic picture.
Fig. 19.38 Chest X-ray: major manifestations and differential 
diagnosis of pulmonary TB. Less common manifestations include 
pneumothorax, ARDS (p. 192), cor pulmonale and localised emphysema. 
development of new nodes and suppuration may all 
occur but without evidence of continued infection; sur-
gical excision is rarely necessary. In non-immigrant chil-
dren in the UK, most mycobacterial lymphadenitis is 
caused by opportunistic mycobacteria, especially of the 
M. avium complex.
Pericardial disease
Disease occurs in two forms (see Fig. 19.39 and p. 639): 
pericardial effusion and constrictive pericarditis. Fever 
and night sweats are rarely prominent and the presenta-
tion is usually insidious, with breathlessness and 
abdominal swelling. Coexistent pulmonary disease is 
very rare, with the exception of pleural effusion. Pulsus 
paradoxus, a raised JVP, hepatomegaly, prominent 
ascites and peripheral oedema are common to both 
types. Pericardial effusion is associated with increased 
pericardial dullness and a globular enlarged heart on 
chest X-ray, and pericardial calcification occurs in 
around 25% of cases. Constriction is associated with  
an early third heart sound and, occasionally, atrial  
fibrillation. Diagnosis is based on the clinical, radiologi-
cal and echocardiographic findings (p. 640). The  
effusion is frequently blood-stained. Open pericardial 
biopsy can be performed where there is diagnostic 
uncertainty. The addition of corticosteroids to anti-
tuberculosis treatment has been shown to help both 
forms of pericardial disease.
Central nervous system disease
Meningeal disease represents the most important form 
of central nervous system TB. Unrecognised and 
untreated, it is rapidly fatal. Even when appropriate 
treatment is prescribed, mortality rates of 30% have been 
reported, whilst survivors may be left with neurological 
sequelae. Clinical features, investigations and manage-
ment are described on page 1204.
691
Bone and joint disease
The spine is the most common site for bony TB (Pott’s 
disease), which usually presents with chronic back pain 
and typically involves the lower thoracic and lumbar 
Gastrointestinal tuberculosis
TB can affect any part of the bowel and patients may 
present with a wide range of symptoms and signs (Fig. 
19.39). Upper gastrointestinal tract involvement is rare 
and is usually an unexpected histological finding in an 
endoscopic or laparotomy specimen. Ileocaecal disease 
accounts for approximately half of abdominal TB cases. 
Fever, night sweats, anorexia and weight loss are usually 
prominent and a right iliac fossa mass may be palpable. 
Up to 30% of cases present with an acute abdomen. 
Ultrasound or CT may reveal thickened bowel wall, 
abdominal lymphadenopathy, mesenteric thickening or 
ascites. Barium enema and small bowel enema reveal 
narrowing, shortening and distortion of the bowel, with 
caecal involvement predominating. Diagnosis rests on 
obtaining histology by either colonoscopy or mini-
laparotomy. The main differential diagnosis is Crohn’s 
disease (p. 897). Tuberculous peritonitis is characterised 
by abdominal distension, pain and constitutional symp-
toms. The ascitic fluid is exudative and cellular, with a 
predominance of lymphocytes. Laparoscopy reveals 
multiple white ‘tubercles’ over the peritoneal and 
omental surfaces. Low-grade hepatic dysfunction is 
common in miliary disease, in which biopsy reveals 
RespiRatoRy disease
19
Cranial nerve palsy
Lymph node enlargement
Headache, vomiting,
seizures, confusion
Lymphocytic meningitis
Hydrocephalus
Space-occupying lesion
(tuberculoma)
Pericardial effusion
Constrictive pericarditis
Chronic back pain
Exudative ascites
Kyphosis
Cord compression
Mesenteric adenitis
Intestinal obstruction
Abdominal mass
Haematuria/dysuria
Infertility in women
Epididymitis
Psoas abscess
Monoarthritis
Anorectal ulceration
 General observation
Weight loss
 
Fever
 
Night sweats
Fig. 19.39 Systemic presentations of extrapulmonary TB. 
Fig. 19.40 Typical changes of tuberculosis. The chest X-ray shows 
bilateral upper lobe airspace shadowing with cavitation. 
spine (see Fig. 19.39). The infection starts as a discitis and 
then spreads along the spinal ligaments to involve the 
adjacent anterior vertebral bodies, causing angulation of 
the vertebrae with subsequent kyphosis. Paravertebral 
and psoas abscess formation is common and the disease 
may present with a large (cold) abscess in the inguinal 
region. CT or MRI is valuable in gauging the extent of 
disease, the amount of cord compression, and the site 
for needle biopsy or open exploration, if required. The 
major differential diagnosis is malignancy, which tends 
to affect the vertebral body and leave the disc intact. 
Important complications include spinal instability or 
cord compression.
TB can affect any joint but most frequently involves 
the hip or knee. Presentation is usually insidious, with 
pain and swelling; fever and night sweats are uncom-
mon. Radiological changes are often non-specific but,  
as disease progresses, reduction in joint space and ero-
sions appear. Poncet’s arthropathy is an immunologi-
cally mediated polyarthritis that usually resolves within 
2 months of starting treatment.
692
Diagnosis
The presence of an otherwise unexplained cough for 
more than 2–3 weeks, particularly in regions where TB 
is prevalent, or typical chest X-ray changes (Fig. 19.40), 
should prompt further investigation (Box 19.58). Direct 
microscopy of sputum remains the most important first 
step. The probability of detecting acid-fast bacilli is pro-
portional to the bacillary burden in the sputum (typi-
cally positive when 5000–10 000 organisms are present). 
By virtue of their substantial, lipid-rich wall, tubercu-
lous bacilli are difficult to stain. The most effective  
Genitourinary disease
Fever and night sweats are rare with renal tract TB and 
patients are often only mildly symptomatic for many 
years. Haematuria, frequency and dysuria are often 
present, with sterile pyuria found on urine microscopy 
and culture. In women, infertility from endometritis, or 
pelvic pain and swelling from salpingitis or a tubo-
ovarian abscess occurs occasionally. In men, genito-
urinary TB may present as epididymitis or prostatitis.
Infections of the respiratory system 
19.58 Diagnosis of TB
appearances are typical of TB and there is no response 
to a broad-spectrum antibiotic.
MTB grows slowly and may take between 4 and  
Specimens required
Pulmonary
• Sputum* (induced with nebulised hypertonic saline if not 
expectorating)
• Bronchoscopy with washings or BAL
• Gastric washing* (mainly used for children)
Extrapulmonary
• Fluid examination (cerebrospinal, ascitic, pleural, pericardial, 
joint): yield classically very low
• Tissue biopsy (from affected site): bone marrow/liver may be 
diagnostic in disseminated disease
Diagnostic tests
• Tuberculin skin test: low sensitivity/specificity; useful only in 
primary or deep-seated infection
• Stain
Ziehl–Neelsen
Auramine fluorescence
• Nucleic acid amplification
• Culture
19
Solid media (Löwenstein–Jensen, Middlebrook)
Liquid media (e.g. BACTEC or MGIT)
• Pleural fluid: adenosine deaminase
• Response to empirical antituberculous drugs (usually seen 
after 5–10 days)
Baseline blood tests
• FBC, CRP, ESR, U&E and LFTs
*At least 2 but preferably 3, including an early morning sample.
(BAL = bronchoalveolar lavage; MGIT = mycobacteria growth indicator tube)
6 weeks to appear on solid medium, such as Löwenstein– 
Jensen or Middlebrook. Faster growth (1–3 weeks) 
occurs in liquid media, such as the radioactive BACTEC 
system or the non-radiometric mycobacteria growth 
indicator tube (MGIT). The BACTEC method is the most 
widely accepted as the reference standard in developed 
nations and detects mycobacterial growth by measuring 
the liberation of 14CO2, following metabolism of 14C-
labelled substrate present in the medium.
Drug sensitivity testing is particularly important in 
those with a previous history of TB, treatment failure  
or chronic disease, and in those who are resident in or 
have visited an area of high prevalence of resistance, or 
who are HIV-positive. The detection of rifampicin resist-
ance, using molecular tools to test for the presence of the 
rpo gene currently associated with around 95% of 
rifampicin-resistant cases, is important, as rifampicin 
forms the cornerstone of 6-month chemotherapy.
Nucleic acid amplification tests, such as the Xpert/
RIF test, combine the potential to diagnose TB and detect 
the presence of rifampicin resistance, and may become 
the test of first choice in individuals with HIV or those 
suspected to have multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis 
(MDR-TB). If a cluster of cases suggests a common 
source, confirmation may be sought by fingerprinting of 
isolates with restriction-fragment length polymorphism 
(RFLP).
The diagnosis of extrapulmonary TB can be more 
challenging. There are generally fewer organisms (par-
ticularly in meningeal or pleural fluid), so culture or 
histopathological examination of tissue is more impor-
tant. Adenosine deaminase in pleural fluid, and to a 
lesser extent in CSF, may assist in confirming suspected 
TB. In the presence of HIV, examination of sputum may 
still be useful, as subclinical pulmonary disease is 
common.
Fig. 19.41 Positive Ziehl–Neelsen stain. Mycobacteria retain the red 
carbol fuchsin stain, despite washing with acid and alcohol. 
693
techniques are the Ziehl–Neelsen (Fig. 19.41) and 
rhodamine–auramine. The latter causes the tuberculous 
bacilli to fluoresce against a dark background and is 
easier to use when numerous specimens need to be 
examined; however, it is more complex and expensive, 
limiting use in resource-poor regions.
A positive smear is sufficient for the presumptive 
diagnosis of TB but definitive diagnosis requires culture. 
Smear-negative sputum should also be cultured, as only 
10–100 viable organisms are required for sputum to be 
culture-positive. A diagnosis of smear-negative TB may 
be made in advance of culture if the chest X-ray 
Management
Chemotherapy
The treatment of TB is based on the principle of an initial 
intensive phase to reduce the bacterial population 
rapidly, followed by a continuation phase to destroy any 
remaining bacteria (Box 19.59). Standard treatment 
involves 6 months’ treatment with isoniazid and 
rifampicin, supplemented in the first 2 months with 
pyrazinamide and ethambutol. Fixed-dose tablets com-
bining two or three drugs are preferred. Treatment 
should be commenced immediately in any patient who 
is smear-positive, or smear-negative but with typical 
chest X-ray changes and no response to standard 
antibiotics.
Six months of therapy is appropriate for all patients 
with new-onset pulmonary TB and most cases of 
extrapulmonary TB. However, 12 months of therapy is 
recommended for meningeal TB, including involvement 
of the spinal cord in cases of spinal TB; in these cases, 
ethambutol may be replaced by streptomycin. Pyridox-
ine should be prescribed in pregnant women and mal-
nourished patients to reduce the risk of peripheral 
neuropathy with isoniazid. Where drug resistance is not 
anticipated, patients can be assumed to be non-infectious 
after 2 weeks of appropriate therapy.
RespiRatoRy disease
19.59 Treatment of new TB patients (World Health Organization recommendations)
19
Intensive phase
Continuation phase
Comments
Standard regimen
2 mths of HRZE
4 mths of HR
2 mths of HRZE
4 mths of HRE
Applies only in countries with high levels of isoniazid resistance in new TB patients, and 
where isoniazid drug susceptibility testing in new patients is not done (or results are 
unavailable) before the continuation phase begins
Dosing frequency
Daily*
Daily
Optimal
Daily*
3 times/wk
Acceptable alternative for any new patient receiving directly observed therapy
3 times/wk
3 times/wk
Acceptable alternative, provided that the patient is receiving directly observed therapy and is 
NOT living with HIV or living in an HIV-prevalent setting
*Daily (rather than 3 times weekly) intensive-phase dosing may help to prevent acquired drug resistance in TB patients starting treatment with isoniazid 
resistance.
(H = isoniazid; R = rifampicin; Z = pyrazinamide; E = ethambutol) Adapted from WHO Treatment of Tuberculosis Guidelines, 4th edn.
19.60 Main adverse reactions of first-line antituberculous drugs
Isoniazid
Rifampicin
Pyrazinamide
Streptomycin
Ethambutol
Mode of action
Cell wall synthesis
DNA transcription
Unknown
Protein synthesis
Cell wall synthesis
Retrobulbar neuritis3
Major adverse 
reactions
Peripheral 
neuropathy1
8th nerve damage
Rash
Arthralgia
Hepatitis2
Hepatitis
Gastrointestinal 
disturbance
Hyperuricaemia
Rash
Febrile reactions
Hepatitis
Rash
Gastrointestinal 
disturbance
Nephrotoxicity
Agranulocytosis
Peripheral neuropathy
Rash
Less common 
adverse reactions
Rash
Photosensitisation
Gout
Lupoid reactions
Seizures
Psychoses
Interstitial nephritis
Thrombocytopenia
Haemolytic anaemia
1The risk may be reduced by prescribing pyridoxine. 2More common in patients with a slow acetylator status and in alcoholics. 3Reduced visual acuity and colour 
vision may be reported with higher doses and are usually reversible.
hepatotoxic regimens may be considered, including 
streptomycin, ethambutol and fluoroquinolone.
Corticosteroids reduce inflammation and limit tissue 
damage, and are currently recommended when treating 
pericardial or meningeal disease, and in children with 
endobronchial disease. They may confer benefit in TB of 
the ureter, pleural effusions and extensive pulmonary 
disease, and can suppress hypersensitivity drug reac-
tions. Surgery should be considered in cases compli-
cated by massive haemoptysis, loculated empyema, 
constrictive pericarditis, lymph node suppuration, and 
spinal disease with cord compression, but usually only 
after a full course of antituberculosis treatment.
The effectiveness of therapy for pulmonary TB is 
assessed by further sputum smear at 2 months and at  
5 months. Treatment failure is defined as a positive 
sputum smear or culture at 5 months or any patient  
with a multidrug resistant strain, regardless of whether 
they are smear-positive or negative. Extrapulmonary 
TB must be assessed clinically or radiographically,  
as appropriate.
694
Most patients can be treated at home. Admission to 
a hospital unit with appropriate isolation facilities 
should be considered where there is uncertainty about 
the diagnosis, intolerance of medication, questionable 
treatment adherence, adverse social conditions or a sig-
nificant risk of MDR-TB (culture-positive after 2 months 
on treatment, or contact with known MDR-TB).
Patients treated with rifampicin should be advised 
that their urine, tears and other secretions will develop 
a bright orange/red coloration, and women taking the 
oral contraceptive pill must be warned that its efficacy 
will be reduced and alternative contraception may  
be necessary. Ethambutol and streptomycin should  
be used with caution in renal failure, with appropriate 
dose reduction and monitoring of drug levels. Adverse 
drug reactions occur in about 10% of patients, but  
are significantly more common with HIV co-infection 
(Box 19.60).
Baseline liver function and regular monitoring are 
important for patients treated with standard therapy. 
Rifampicin may cause asymptomatic hyperbilirubin-
aemia but, along with isoniazid and pyrazinamide, may 
also cause hepatitis. Mild asymptomatic increases in 
transaminases are common but significant hepatotoxic-
ity only occurs in 2–5%. It is appropriate to stop treat-
ment and allow any symptoms to subside and the liver 
function tests (LFTs) to recover before commencing a 
stepwise re-introduction of the individual drugs. Less 
Control and prevention
The World Health Organization (WHO) is committed to 
reducing the incidence of TB by 2015. Supporting the 
development of laboratory and health-care services to 
improve detection and treatment of active and latent TB 
is an important component of this goal.
Infections of the respiratory system 
A
B
Purified
T lymphocytes
Whole
blood
Incubate in
the presence
of antigens
specific to MTB
Incubate in
the presence
of antigens
specific to MTB
IFN-γ
released
IFN-γ
released
IFN-γ binds to
antibody on base
of ELISPOT wells
Detection of latent TB
Contact tracing is a legal requirement in many countries. 
It has the potential to identify the probable index case, 
other cases infected by the same index patient (with or 
without evidence of disease), and close contacts who 
should receive BCG vaccination (see below) or chemo-
therapy. Approximately 10–20% of close contacts of 
patients with smear-positive pulmonary TB and 2–5% of 
those with smear-negative, culture-positive disease have 
evidence of TB infection.
Cases are commonly identified using the tuberculin 
skin test (Box 19.61 and Fig 19.42). An otherwise asymp-
tomatic contact with a positive tuberculin skin test but 
a normal chest X-ray may be treated with chemoprophy-
laxis to prevent infection from progressing to clinical 
disease. Chemoprophylaxis is also recommended for 
children aged less than 16 years identified during contact 
tracing as having a strongly positive tuberculin test, chil-
dren aged less than 2 years in close contact with smear-
positive pulmonary disease, those in whom recent 
Supernatant
removed and
IFN-γ measured
by ELISA
Spots counted
19
19.61 Skin testing in TB: tests using purified 
protein derivative (PPD)
Heaf test
• Read at 3–7 days
• Multipuncture method
Fig. 19.43 The principles of interferon-gamma release assays. 
A sample of either purified T cells (T-SPOT.TB® test) or whole blood 
(QuantiFERON®–TB Gold test) is incubated in the presence of antigens 
specific to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB). The release of interferon-
gamma (IFN-γ) by the cells is measured by enzyme-lined immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA). (ELISPOT = enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay) 
Grade 1: 4–6 papules
Grade 2: Confluent papules forming ring
Grade 3: Central induration
Grade 4: > 10 mm induration
Mantoux test
• Read at 2–4 days
• 10 tuberculin units used
Positive when induration 5–14 mm (equivalent to Heaf 
grade 2) and > 15 mm (Heaf grade 3–4)
False negatives
• Severe TB (25% of cases 
• Recent infection (e.g. 
negative)
measles) or immunisation
• Newborn and elderly
• HIV (if CD4 count  
• Immunosuppressive drugs
• Malignancy
• Sarcoidosis
< 200 cells/mL)
• Malnutrition
A
B
tuberculin conversion has been confirmed, and babies of 
mothers with pulmonary TB. It should also be consid-
ered for HIV-infected close contacts of a patient with 
smear-positive disease. A course of rifampicin and iso-
niazid for 3 months or isoniazid for 6 months is 
effective.
Tuberculin skin testing may be associated with false-
positive reactions in those who have had a BCG vaccina-
tion and in areas where exposure to non-tuberculous 
mycobacteria is high. The skin tests may also be falsely 
negative in the setting of immunosuppression or over-
whelming infection. These limitations may be overcome 
by employing interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) 
(Fig. 19.43). These tests measure the release of IFN-γ 
from sensitised T cells in response to antigens, such as 
early secretory antigenic target (ESAT)-6 or culture fil-
trate protein (CFP)-10, that are encoded by genes specific 
to the MTB and are not shared with BCG or opportun-
istic mycobacteria. The greater specificity of these tests, 
combined with the logistical convenience of one blood 
test, as opposed to two visits for skin testing, suggests 
that IGRAs will replace the tuberculin skin test in low-
incidence, high-income countries.
C
D
E
695
Fig. 19.42 Gradings of the Heaf test response.  A Negative.
 B Grade 1.  C Grade 2.  D Grade 3.  E Grade 4. 
Directly observed therapy
Poor adherence to therapy is a major factor in prolonged 
illness, risk of relapse, and the emergence of drug resist-
ance. Directly observed therapy (DOT) involves the 
supervised administration of therapy 3 times weekly to 
improve adherence. DOT has become an important 
control strategy in resource-poor nations. In the UK, it 
is currently recommended for patients thought unlikely 
to be adherent to therapy: homeless people and drifters, 
alcohol or drug users, patients with serious mental 
illness and those with a history of non-compliance.
RespiRatoRy disease
19
patient with smear-positive TB will remain infectious for 
an average of 2 years; in 1 year, 25% of untreated cases 
will die. Death is more likely in those who are smear-
positive and those who smoke. A few patients die unex-
pectedly soon after commencing therapy and it is 
possible that some have subclinical hypoadrenalism that 
is unmasked by a rifampicin-induced increase in steroid 
metabolism. HIV-positive patients have higher mortal-
ity rates and a modestly increased risk of relapse.
TB and HIV/AIDS
The close links between HIV and TB, particularly in sub-
Saharan Africa, and the potential for both diseases to 
overwhelm health-care funding in resource-poor nations 
have been recognised, with the promotion of pro-
grammes that link detection and treatment of TB with 
detection and treatment of HIV. It is recommended that 
all patients with TB should be tested for HIV disease. 
Mortality is high and TB is a leading cause of death in 
HIV patients. Full discussion of its presentation and 
management is given on page 400.
Drug-resistant TB
Drug-resistant TB is defined by the presence of resist-
ance to any first-line agent. Multidrug-resistant TB 
(MDR-TB) is defined by resistance to at least rifampicin 
and isoniazid, with or without other drug resistance. 
Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) is defined as 
resistance to at least rifampicin and isoniazid, in addi-
tion to any quinolone and at least one injectable second-
line agent. The prevalence of MDR-TB is rising, 
particularly in the former Soviet Union, Central Asia 
and Africa. It is more common in those with a prior 
history of TB, particularly if treatment has been inad-
equate, and those with HIV infection. Box 19.62 lists the 
factors contributing to the emergence of drug-resistant 
TB. Diagnosis is challenging, especially in developing 
countries, and although cure may be possible, it requires 
prolonged treatment with less effective, more toxic and 
more expensive therapies. The mortality rate from 
MDR-TB is high and that from XDR-TB higher still.
Opportunistic mycobacterial 
infection
Other species of environmental mycobacteria (often 
termed ‘atypical’) may cause human disease (Box 19.63). 
The sites commonly involved are the lungs, lymph 
nodes, skin and soft tissues. The most widely recognised 
of these mycobacteria, M. avium complex (MAC), is well 
described in severe HIV disease (CD4 count < 50 cells/
mL – p. 407). However, several others (including MAC) 
colonise and/or infect apparently immunocompetent 
patients with chronic lung diseases such as COPD, bron-
chiectasis, pneumoconiosis, old TB, or cystic fibrosis. 
The clinical presentation varies from a relatively indo-
lent course in some to an aggressive course characterised 
by cavitatory or nodular disease in others. Radiological 
appearances may be similar to classical TB, but in 
patients with bronchiectasis, opportunistic infection 
may present with lower-zone nodules. The most com-
monly reported organisms include M. kansasii, M. mal-
moense, M. xenopi and M. abscessus, but geographical 
variation is marked. M. abscessus and M. fortuitum grow 
rapidly but the majority grow slowly. More rapid diag-
nostic systems are under development, including DNA 
probes, 
high-performance 
liquid 
chromatography 
(HPLC), PCR restriction enzyme analysis (PRA) and 16S 
rRNA gene sequence analysis. With the exception of M. 
kansasii, drug sensitivity testing is usually unhelpful in 
predicting treatment response. There is usually no 
requirement for notification, as the organisms are not 
normally communicable.
19.63 Site-specific opportunistic 
mycobacterial disease
Vaccines
BCG (the Calmette–Guérin bacillus), a live attenuated 
vaccine derived from M. bovis, is the most established 
TB vaccine. It is administered by intradermal injection 
and is highly immunogenic. BCG appears to be effective 
in preventing disseminated disease, including tubercu-
lous meningitis, in children, but its efficacy in adults is 
inconsistent and new vaccines are urgently needed. 
Current vaccination policies vary worldwide according 
to incidence and health-care resources, but usually 
target children and other high-risk individuals. BCG is 
very safe, with the occasional complication of local 
abscess formation. It should not be administered to 
those who are immunocompromised (e.g. by HIV) or 
pregnant.
Pulmonary
• M. xenopi
• M. kansasii
• M. malmoense
• MAC
Lymph node
• MAC
• M. malmoense
• M. fortuitum
• M. chelonei
Prognosis
Following successful completion of chemotherapy, cure 
should be anticipated in the majority of patients. There 
is a small (< 5%) and unavoidable risk of relapse. Most 
relapses occur within 5 months and usually have the 
same drug susceptibility. In the absence of treatment, a 
Soft tissue/skin
• M. leprae
• M. ulcerans (prevalent in 
• M. marinum
• M. fortuitum
• M. chelonei
Africa, northern Australia 
and South-east Asia)
19.62 Factors contributing to the emergence of 
drug-resistant TB
Disseminated
• MAC (HIV-associated)
• M. haemophilum
• M. genavense
• M. fortuitum
• M. chelonei
• BCG
(BCG = bacille Calmette–Guérin; MAC = Mycobacterium avium 
complex – M. scrofulaceum, M. intracellulare and M. avium)
• Drug shortages
• Poor-quality drugs
• Lack of appropriate supervision
• Transmission of drug-resistant strains
• Prior anti-tuberculosis treatment
• Treatment failure (smear-positive at 5 mths)
696
Infections of the respiratory system 
Respiratory diseases caused by fungi
19.66 Features of allergic bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis
The majority of fungi encountered by humans are harm-
less saprophytes but in certain circumstances (Box 19.64) 
some species may cause disease by infecting human 
tissue, promoting damaging allergic reactions or pro-
ducing toxins. ‘Mycosis’ is the term applied to disease 
caused by fungal infection.
• Asthma (in the majority of cases)
• Proximal bronchiectasis (inner two-thirds of chest CT field)
• Positive skin test to an extract of A. fumigatus
• Elevated total serum IgE > 417 KU/L or 1000 ng/mL
• Elevated serum IgE (A. fumigatus) or IgG (A. fumigatus)
• Peripheral blood eosinophilia > 0.5 × 109/L
• Presence or history of chest X-ray abnormalities
• Fungal hyphae of A. fumigatus on microscopic examination 
of sputum
Aspergillus species
Most cases of bronchopulmonary aspergillosis are 
caused by Aspergillus fumigatus, but other members of 
the genus (A. clavatus, A. flavus, A. niger and A. terreus) 
occasionally cause disease. The conditions associated 
with Aspergillus species are listed in Box 19.65.
19
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) occurs 
as a result of a hypersensitivity reaction to germinating 
fungal spores in the airway wall. The condition may 
complicate the course of asthma and cystic fibrosis, and 
is a recognised cause of pulmonary eosinophilia (p. 713). 
The prevalence of ABPA is approximately 1–2% in 
asthma and 5–10% in cystic fibrosis. A variety of human 
leucocyte antigens (HLA) convey both an increased and 
a decreased risk of developing the condition, suggesting 
that genetic susceptibility is important.
Fig. 19.44 Branching Aspergillus hyphae seen in ABPA. The figure 
shows the use of calcofluor white, a non-specific fluorochrome stain that 
binds to fungi and fluoresces when exposed to light of the appropriate 
wavelength. Aspergillus fumigatus was subsequently grown on culture. 
Clinical features and investigations
Clinical features depend on the stage of the disease. 
Common manifestations in the early phase include 
fever, breathlessness, cough productive of bronchial 
casts, and worsening of asthmatic symptoms. The 
appearance of radiographic infiltrates may cause ABPA 
to be mistaken for pneumonia, but the diagnosis may 
also be suggested by segmental or lobar collapse on 
chest X-rays of patients whose asthma symptoms are 
stable. Diagnostic features are shown in Box 19.66 and 
the typical Aspergillus hyphae in Figure 19.44. If bron-
chiectasis develops, its symptoms and complications 
often overshadow those of asthma.
19.64 Factors predisposing to fungal disease
• Corticosteroids and other 
Management
ABPA is generally considered an indication for regular 
therapy with low-dose oral corticosteroids (prednisolone 
7.5–10 mg daily), with the aim of suppressing the 
immuno pathological responses and preventing progres-
sive tissue damage. In some patients, itraconazole 
(400 mg/day) facilitates a reduction in oral steroids, and 
a 4-month trial is usually recommended to assess its 
efficacy. The use of specific anti-IgE monoclonal anti-
bodies is under consideration. Exacerbations, particu-
larly when associated with new chest X-ray changes, 
should be treated promptly with prednisolone 40–60 mg 
daily and physiotherapy. If persistent lobar collapse 
occurs, bronchoscopy (usually under general anaes-
thetic) should be performed to remove impacted mucus 
and ensure prompt re-inflation.
immunosuppressant 
medication
Systemic factors
• Diabetes mellitus
• Chronic alcoholism
• HIV
• Radiotherapy
Local factors
• Tissue damage by suppuration or necrosis
• Alteration of normal bacterial flora by antibiotic therapy
19.65 Classification of bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis
• Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (asthmatic 
pulmonary eosinophilia)
Aspergilloma
Inhaled Aspergillus may lodge and germinate in areas of 
damaged lung tissue, forming a fungal ball or ‘aspergil-
loma’. The upper lobes are most frequently involved and 
fungal balls readily form in tuberculous cavities (Fig. 
19.45). Less common causes include damage from a lung 
abscess cavity, a bronchiectatic space, pulmonary infarct, 
sarcoid, ankylosing spondylitis or even a cavitated 
tumour. The presence of multiple aspergilloma cavities 
in a diseased area of lung has been termed a ‘complex 
aspergilloma’ (see below).
• Extrinsic allergic alveolitis (Aspergillus clavatus)
• Intracavitary aspergilloma
• Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
• Chronic and subacute pulmonary aspergillosis
697
Clinical features and investigations
Simple aspergillomas are often asymptomatic and are 
identified incidentally on chest X-ray. However, they 
RespiRatoRy disease
19
19.68 Criteria for the diagnosis of probable 
invasive pulmonary aspergillosis1
Host factors
• Recent history of neutropenia (< 0.5 × 109/L for ≥ 10 days) 
temporally related to the onset of fungal disease
• Recipient of allogeneic stem cell transplant
• Prolonged use of corticosteroids (average minimum  
0.3 mg/kg/day prednisolone or equivalent) for > 3 wks 
(excludes ABPA)
• Treatment with other recognised T-cell immune 
suppressants, such as ciclosporin, TNF-α blockers, specific 
monoclonal antibodies (e.g. alemtuzumab) or nucleoside 
analogues during the last 90 days
• Inherited severe immune deficiency, e.g. chronic 
granulomatous disease or severe combined immune 
deficiency (p. 80)
Fig. 19.45 CT of aspergilloma in the left upper lobe. The rounded 
fungal ball is separated from the wall of the cavity by a ‘halo’ of air. 
Clinical criteria2
• The presence of one of the following on CT:
1. Dense, well-circumscribed lesion(s) with or without a  
halo sign
2. Air crescent sign
3. Cavity
Tracheobronchitis
• Tracheobronchial ulceration, nodule, pseudomembrane, 
plaque or eschar seen on bronchoscopy
Mycological criteria
• Mould in sputum, BAL fluid or bronchial brush, indicated by 
one of the following:
1. Recovery of fungal elements indicating a mould of 
Aspergillus
may cause recurrent haemoptysis, which may be severe 
and life-threatening. Non-specific systemic features, 
such as lethargy and weight loss, may also be reported.
The fungal ball produces a tumour-like opacity on 
X-ray, but can be distinguished from a carcinoma by the 
presence of a crescent of air between the fungal ball and 
the upper wall of the cavity. HRCT is more sensitive (see 
Fig. 19.45). Elevated serum precipitins to A. fumigatus 
are found in virtually all patients. Sputum microscopy 
typically demonstrates scanty hyphal fragments and is 
usually positive on culture. Less than half exhibit skin 
hypersensitivity to extracts of A. fumigatus. Rarely, other 
filamentous fungi can cause intracavitary mycetoma and 
are identified by culture.
2. Recovery by culture of a mould of Aspergillus
• Indirect tests (detection of antigen or cell wall constituents)
1. Galactomannan antigen in plasma, serum or BAL fluid
2. β-1,3-glucan detected in serum (detects other species 
of fungi, as well as Aspergillus)3
2Must be consistent with the mycological 
3May be useful as a 
1Adapted from European Organisation for Research and Treatment of 
Cancer/Mycoses Study Group. 
findings and temporally related to current episode.
preliminary screening tool for invasive aspergillosis.
Management
Asymptomatic cases do not require treatment. Specific 
antifungal therapy is of no value and steroids may pre-
dispose to invasion. Aspergillomas complicated by hae-
moptysis should be excised surgically. In those unfit for 
surgery, palliative procedures range from local instilla-
tion of amphotericin B to bronchial artery embolisation. 
The latter may be used to control haemoptysis prior to 
definitive surgery.
Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is most com-
monly a complication of profound neutropenia caused 
by drugs (especially immunosuppressants) and/or 
disease (Box 19.67).
Clinical features and investigations
Acute IPA causes a severe necrotising pneumonia and 
must be considered in any immunocompromised patient 
19.67 Risk factors for invasive aspergillosis
who develops fever, new respiratory symptoms (par-
ticularly pleural pain or haemoptysis) or a pleural rub. 
Invasion of pulmonary vessels causes thrombosis and 
infarction, and systemic spread may occur to the brain, 
heart, kidneys and others organs. Tracheobronchial 
aspergillosis involvement is characterised by the forma-
tion of fungal plaques and ulceration.
HRCT 
characteristically 
shows 
macronodules 
(usually ≥ 1 cm), which may be surrounded by a ‘halo’ 
of low attenuation if captured early (< 5 days). Culture 
or histopathological evidence of Aspergillus in diseased 
tissues provides a definitive diagnosis, but the majority 
of patients are too ill for invasive tests such as broncho-
scopy or lung biopsy. Other investigations include 
detection of Aspergillus cell wall components (galacto-
mannan and β-1,3-glucan) in blood or BAL fluid and 
Aspergillus DNA by PCR. Diagnosis is often inferred 
from a combination of features (Box 19.68).
• Neutropenia: risk related to duration and degree
• Solid organ or allogeneic stem cell transplantation
• Prolonged high-dose corticosteroid therapy
• Leukaemia and other haematological malignancies
• Cytotoxic chemotherapy
• Advanced HIV disease
• Severe COPD
• Critically ill patients on intensive care units
• Chronic granulomatous disease
698
Management and prevention
IPA carries a high mortality rate, especially if treatment 
is delayed. The treatment of choice is voriconazole. 
Second-line agents include liposomal amphotericin, 
Tumours of the bronchus and lung 
19.69 The burden of lung cancer
• Strikes 900 000 men and 330 000 women each year
• Accounts for 18% of all cancer deaths
• More than a threefold increase in deaths since 1950
• Rates rising in women: female lung cancer deaths outnumber 
caspofungin or posaconazole. Response may be assessed 
clinically, radiologically and serologically (by estimation 
of the circulating galactomannan level). Recovery is 
dependent on immune reconstitution, which may be 
accompanied by enlargement and/or cavitation of pul-
monary nodules.
Patients at risk of Aspergillus (and other fungal infec-
male in some Nordic countries
• Has overtaken breast cancer in several countries, making it 
the most common cause of cancer death in men and women
tions) should be nursed in rooms with high-efficiency 
particulate air (HEPA) filters and laminar airflow. In 
areas with high spore counts, patients are advised to 
wear a mask if venturing outside their hospital room. 
Posaconazole (200 mg 3 times daily) or itraconazole 
(200 mg/day) may be prescribed for primary prophy-
laxis, and patients with a history of definite or probable 
IPA should be considered for secondary prophylaxis 
before further immunosuppression.
(Box 19.69). Tobacco use is the major preventable cause. 
Just as tobacco use and cancer rates are falling in some 
developed countries, both smoking and lung cancer are 
rising in Eastern Europe and in many developing coun-
tries. The great majority of tumours in the lung are 
primary bronchial carcinomas and, in contrast to many 
other tumours, the prognosis remains poor, with fewer 
than 30% of patients surviving at 1 year and 6–8% at  
5 years. Carcinomas of many other organs, as well as 
osteogenic and other sarcomas, may cause metastatic 
pulmonary deposits.
19
Primary tumours of the lung
Chronic and subacute pulmonary aspergillosis
Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) is an indolent 
non-invasive complication of chronic lung disease, such 
as COPD, tuberculosis, opportunistic mycobacterial 
disease or fibrotic lung disease. It may be associated 
with malnutrition, diabetes or liver disease and 
co-infection with opportunistic mycobacteria. CPA may 
mimic tuberculosis, resulting in its delayed diagnosis. 
Features include cough (with or without haemoptysis), 
weight loss, anorexia and fatigue over months or years, 
with associated fever, night sweats and elevated inflam-
matory markers. Radiological features include thick-
walled cavities (predominantly apical), pulmonary 
infiltrates, pleural thickening and, later, fibrosis. The 
terms chronic necrotising (CNPA), cavitary (‘complex 
aspergilloma’) and fibrosing pulmonary aspergillosis 
have been applied, depending on the predominant fea-
tures. There is overlap between CNPA and ‘subacute’ 
and ‘semi-invasive’ aspergillosis. Subacute aspergillosis 
is increasingly recognised in intensive care patients, 
especially those with COPD. The diagnosis is made by 
a combination of radiological examination, histopathol-
ogy, isolation of fungus from the respiratory tract and 
detection of Aspergillus IgG in serum. Treatment usually 
involves prolonged indefinite courses of itraconazole or 
voriconazole, but cure is unusual. The most frequent 
pattern is chronic relapse/remission with gradual deter-
ioration. Surgical intervention is fraught with complica-
tions and should be avoided.
Aetiology
Cigarette smoking is by far the most important cause of 
lung cancer. It is thought to be directly responsible for 
at least 90% of lung carcinomas, the risk being propor-
tional to the amount smoked and to the tar content of 
cigarettes. The death rate from the disease in heavy 
smokers is 40 times that in non-smokers. Risk falls 
slowly after smoking cessation, but remains above that 
in non-smokers for many years. It is estimated that 1 in 
2 smokers dies from a smoking-related disease, about 
half in middle age. The effect of ‘passive’ smoking is 
more difficult to quantify but is currently thought to be 
a factor in 5% of all lung cancer deaths. Exposure to 
naturally occurring radon is another risk. The incidence 
of lung cancer is slightly higher in urban than in rural 
dwellers, which may reflect differences in atmospheric 
pollution (including tobacco smoke) or occupation, since 
a number of industrial materials are associated with 
lung cancer (p. 266). In recent years, the strong link 
between smoking and ill health has led many Western 
governments to legislate against smoking in public 
places, and smoking prevalence and some smoking-
related diseases are already declining in these countries 
(p. 100).
Other fungal infections
Mucormycosis (p. 384) may present with a pulmonary 
syndrome indistinguishable clinically from acute IPA. 
Diagnosis relies on histopathology (where available) 
and/or culture of the organism from diseased tissue. 
The principles of treatment are as for other forms of 
mucormycosis: correction of predisposing factors, anti-
fungal therapy with high-dose lipid amphotericin B or 
posaconazole, and surgical débridement.
Histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, blastomycosis 
and cryptococcosis are discussed on pages 384–386.
Bronchial carcinoma
The incidence of bronchial carcinoma increased dramati-
cally during the 20th century as a direct result of the 
tobacco epidemic (Fig. 19.46). In women, smoking 
preva lence and deaths from lung cancer continue to 
increase, and more women now die of lung cancer than 
breast cancer in the USA and the UK.
TUMOURS OF THE BRONCHUS  
AND LUNG
699
Lung cancer is the most common cause of death from 
cancer worldwide, causing 1.4 million deaths per year 
Pathology
Bronchial carcinomas arise from the bronchial epithe-
lium or mucous glands. The common cell types are listed 
in Box 19.70. When the tumour occurs in a large bron-
chus, symptoms arise early, but tumours originating in 
a peripheral bronchus can grow very large without  
RespiRatoRy disease
Males
Females
19
Rate per 100 000
Rate per 100 000
900
300
800
45–54
55–64
65–74
45–54
55–64
65–74
250
700
75–84
85 and over
75–84
85 and over
600
200
500
150
400
300
100
200
50
100
1960
1970
1980
1990
2000
1960
1970
1980
1990
2000
0
1950
0
1950
Year
Year
Fig. 19.46 Mortality trends from lung cancer in England and Wales, 1950–2004, by age and year of death.  A Males.  B Females. Note 
the decline in mortality from lung cancer in men towards the end of this period, reflecting a change in smoking habit. 
19.70 Common cell types in bronchial carcinoma
Cell type
%
Squamous
35
Adenocarcinoma
30
Small-cell
20
Large-cell
15
Fig. 19.47 Large cavitated bronchial carcinoma in left 
lower lobe. 
producing symptoms, resulting in delayed diagnosis. 
Peripheral squamous tumours may undergo central 
necrosis and cavitation, and may resemble a lung abscess 
on X-ray (Fig. 19.47). Bronchial carcinoma may involve 
the pleura directly or by lymphatic spread, and may 
extend into the chest wall, invading the intercostal 
nerves or the brachial plexus and causing pain. Lym-
phatic spread to mediastinal and supraclavicular lymph 
nodes often occurs before diagnosis. Blood-borne metas-
tases occur most commonly in liver, bone, brain, adrenals 
and skin. Even a small primary tumour may cause wide-
spread metastatic deposits and this is a particular char-
acteristic of small-cell lung cancers.
smoker should always be investigated to exclude a 
bronchial carcinoma. Occasionally, central tumours 
invade large vessels, causing sudden massive 
haemoptysis that may be fatal.
Clinical features
Lung cancer presents in many different ways, reflecting 
local, metastatic or paraneoplastic tumour effects.
• Cough. This is the most common early symptom. 
It is often dry but secondary infection may cause 
purulent sputum. A change in the character of a 
smoker’s cough, particularly if associated with other 
new symptoms, should always raise suspicion of 
bronchial carcinoma.
• Haemoptysis. Haemoptysis is common, especially 
with central bronchial tumours. Although it may be 
caused by bronchitic infection, haemoptysis in a 
• Bronchial obstruction. This is another common 
presentation, and the clinical and radiological 
manifestations (Figs 19.48 and 19.5, p. 650; Box 
19.71) depend on the site and extent of the 
obstruction, any secondary infection, and the extent 
of coexisting lung disease. Complete obstruction 
causes collapse of a lobe or lung, with 
breathlessness, mediastinal displacement and 
dullness to percussion with reduced breath sounds. 
Partial bronchial obstruction may cause a 
monophonic, unilateral wheeze that fails to clear 
700
Tumours of the bronchus and lung 
A
with coughing, and may also impair the drainage of 
secretions to cause pneumonia or lung abscess as a 
presenting problem. Pneumonia that recurs at the 
same site or responds slowly to treatment, 
particularly in a smoker, should always suggest an 
underlying bronchial carcinoma. Stridor (a harsh 
inspiratory noise) occurs when the larynx, trachea or 
a main bronchus is narrowed by the primary tumour 
or by compression from malignant enlargement of 
the subcarinal and paratracheal lymph nodes.
• Breathlessness. Breathlessness may be caused by 
collapse or pneumonia, or by tumour causing a 
large pleural effusion or compressing a phrenic 
nerve and leading to diaphragmatic paralysis.
B
Compensatory 
emphysema
of left lung
Displacement of 
trachea, heart and other 
mediastinal
structures to the right
19
• Pain and nerve entrapment. Pleural pain usually 
indicates malignant pleural invasion, although it 
can occur with distal infection. Intercostal nerve 
involvement causes pain in the distribution of a 
thoracic dermatome. Carcinoma in the lung apex 
may cause Horner’s syndrome (ipsilateral partial 
ptosis, enophthalmos, miosis and hypohidrosis  
of the face – p. 1172) due to involvement of the 
sympathetic chain at or above the stellate ganglion. 
Pancoast’s syndrome (pain in the inner aspect of the 
arm, sometimes with small muscle wasting in the 
hand) indicates malignant destruction of the T1 and 
C8 roots in the lower part of the brachial plexus by 
an apical lung tumour.
Site of 
obstruction of
right main bronchus
Position of elevated
right hemidiaphragm 
(not seen on chest X-ray)
Fig. 19.48 Collapse of the right lung: effects on neighbouring 
structures.  A Chest X-ray.  B The typical abnormalities are 
highlighted. 
• Mediastinal spread. Involvement of the oesophagus 
may cause dysphagia. If the pericardium is invaded, 
arrhythmia or pericardial effusion may occur. 
Superior vena cava obstruction by malignant nodes 
causes suffusion and swelling of the neck and face, 
conjunctival oedema, headache and dilated veins on 
the chest wall, and is most commonly due to 
bronchial carcinoma. Involvement of the left 
recurrent laryngeal nerve by tumours at the left 
hilum causes vocal cord paralysis, voice alteration 
and a ‘bovine’ cough (lacking the normal explosive 
character). Supraclavicular lymph nodes may be 
palpably enlarged or identified using ultrasound; if 
so, a needle aspirate may provide a simple means 
of cytological diagnosis.
19.71 Causes of large bronchus obstruction
• Metastatic spread. This may lead to focal neurological 
defects, epileptic seizures, personality change, 
jaundice, bone pain or skin nodules. Lassitude, 
anorexia and weight loss usually indicate metastatic 
spread.
Common
• Bronchial carcinoma or adenoma
• Enlarged tracheobronchial lymph nodes (malignant or 
tuberculous)
• Finger clubbing. Overgrowth of the soft tissue of 
the terminal phalanx, leading to increased nail 
curvature and nail bed fluctuation, is often seen  
(p. 644).
• Inhaled foreign bodies (especially right lung)
• Bronchial casts or plugs consisting of inspissated mucus or 
blood clot (especially asthma, cystic fibrosis, haemoptysis, 
debility)
• Collections of mucus or mucopus retained in the bronchi as a 
result of ineffective expectoration (especially postoperative 
following abdominal surgery)
• Hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy (HPOA). 
This is a painful periostitis of the distal tibia, fibula, 
radius and ulna, with local tenderness and 
sometimes pitting oedema over the anterior shin. 
X-rays reveal subperiosteal new bone formation. 
While most frequently associated with bronchial 
carcinoma, HPOA can occur with other tumours.
Rare
• Aortic aneurysm
• Giant left atrium
• Pericardial effusion
• Congenital bronchial atresia
• Fibrous bronchial stricture (e.g. following tuberculosis or 
bronchial surgery/lung transplant)
• Non-metastatic extrapulmonary effects (Box 19.72). 
The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic 
hormone secretion (SIADH, p. 438) and ectopic 
adrenocorticotrophic hormone secretion (p. 774) are 
usually associated with small-cell lung cancer. 
Hypercalcaemia may indicate malignant bone 
701
RespiRatoRy disease
19
19.72 Non-metastatic extrapulmonary 
manifestations of bronchial carcinoma
5
Endocrine (Ch. 20)
• Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion causing 
hyponatraemia
2
8
1
• Ectopic adrenocorticotrophic hormone secretion
• Hypercalcaemia due to secretion of parathyroid hormone-
related peptides
• Carcinoid syndrome (p. 889)
• Gynaecomastia
6
7
4
3
Neurological (Ch. 26)
• Polyneuropathy
• Myelopathy
• Cerebellar degeneration
• Myasthenia (Lambert–Eaton syndrome, p. 1227)
Fig. 19.49 Common radiological presentations of bronchial 
carcinoma. See Box 19.73 for details. 
19.73 Common radiological presentations of 
bronchial carcinoma
Other
• Digital clubbing
• Hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy
• Nephrotic syndrome
• Polymyositis and dermatomyositis
• Eosinophilia
1  Unilateral hilar enlargement
• Central tumour. Hilar glandular involvement. However, a 
peripheral tumour in the apical segment of a lower lobe can 
look like an enlarged hilar shadow on the PA X-ray
destruction or production of hormone-like peptides 
by a tumour. Associated neurological syndromes 
may occur with any type of bronchial carcinoma.
2  Peripheral pulmonary opacity (p. 660)
• Usually irregular but well circumscribed, and may contain 
irregular cavitation. Can be very large
3  Lung, lobe or segmental collapse
• Usually caused by tumour within the bronchus, leading to 
Investigations
The main aims of investigation are to confirm the diag-
nosis, establish the histological cell type and define the 
extent of the disease.
occlusion. Lung collapse may be due to compression of the 
main bronchus by enlarged lymph glands
4  Pleural effusion
• Usually indicates tumour invasion of pleural space; very 
rarely, a manifestation of infection in collapsed lung tissue 
distal to a bronchial carcinoma
5–7 Broadening of mediastinum, enlarged cardiac shadow, 
elevation of a hemidiaphragm
• Paratracheal lymphadenopathy may cause widening of the 
Imaging
Bronchial carcinoma produces a range of appearances 
on chest X-ray, from lobar collapse (see Fig. 19.5, p. 650) 
to mass lesions, effusion or malignant rib destruction 
(Fig. 19.49 and Box 19.73). CT should be performed early 
as it may reveal mediastinal or metastatic spread and is 
helpful for planning biopsy procedures: for example, in 
establishing whether a tumour is accessible by bron-
choscopy or percutaneous CT-guided biopsy.
upper mediastinum. A malignant pericardial effusion will 
cause enlargement of the cardiac shadow. If a raised 
hemidiaphragm is caused by phrenic nerve palsy, screening 
will show it to move paradoxically upwards when patient 
sniffs
8  Rib destruction
• Direct invasion of the chest wall or blood-borne metastatic 
spread can cause osteolytic lesions of the ribs
by needle aspiration or biopsy of affected lymph nodes, 
skin lesions, liver or bone marrow.
702
Biopsy and histopathology
Around three-quarters of primary lung tumours can be 
visualised and sampled directly by biopsy and brushing 
using a flexible bronchoscope. Bronchoscopy also allows 
an assessment of operability, from the proximity of 
central tumours to the main carina (Fig. 19.50).
For tumours which are too peripheral to be accessible 
by bronchoscope, the yield of ‘blind’ bronchoscopic 
washings and brushings from the radiologically affected 
area is low, and percutaneous needle biopsy under CT 
or ultrasound guidance is a more reliable way to obtain 
a histological diagnosis. There is a small risk of iatro-
genic pneumothorax, which may preclude the proce-
dure if there is extensive coexisting COPD. In patients 
who are unfit for invasive investigation, sputum cytol-
ogy can reveal malignant cells (Fig. 19.51), although the 
yield is low.
In patients with pleural effusions, pleural aspiration 
and biopsy is the preferred investigation. Where facili-
ties exist, thoracoscopy increases yield by allowing tar-
geted biopsies under direct vision. In patients with 
metastatic disease, the diagnosis can often be confirmed 
Staging to guide treatment
The propensity of small-cell lung cancer to metastasise 
early dictates that patients with this are usually not  
suitable for surgical intervention. In patients with  
non-small-cell cancer, appropriate treatment and prog-
nosis are determined by disease extent, so careful staging 
is required. CT scanning is used early to detect obvious 
local or distant spread. Enlarged upper mediastinal 
nodes may be sampled using a bronchoscope equipped 
with endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) or by media-
stinoscopy. Nodes in the lower mediastinum can be 
Tumours of the bronchus and lung 
sampled through the oesophageal wall using endoscopic 
ultrasound. Combined CT and PET imaging (see Fig. 
19.6, p. 651) is used increasingly to detect metabolically 
active tumour metastases. Head CT, radionuclide bone 
scanning, liver ultrasound and bone marrow biopsy are 
generally reserved for patients with clinical, haemato-
logical or biochemical evidence of tumour spread to 
these sites. Information on tumour size and nodal and 
metastatic spread is then collated to assign the patient 
to one of seven staging groups that determine optimal 
management and prognosis (Fig. 19.52). Detailed physio-
logical testing is required to assess whether the patient’s 
respiratory and cardiac function is sufficient to allow 
aggressive treatment.
Fig. 19.50 Bronchoscopic view of a bronchogenic carcinoma. 
There is distortion of mucosal folds, partial occlusion of the airway lumen 
and abnormal tumour tissue. 
19
Management
Surgical resection carries the best hope of long-term sur-
vival, but some patients treated with radical radiother-
apy and chemotherapy also achieve prolonged remission 
or cure. Unfortunately, in over 75% of cases, treatment 
with the aim of cure is not possible, or is inappropriate 
due to extensive spread or comorbidity. Such patients 
are offered palliative therapy and best supportive care. 
Radiotherapy and in some cases chemotherapy can 
relieve distressing symptoms.
Surgical treatment
Accurate pre-operative staging, coupled with improve-
ments in surgical and post-operative care, now offers 
5-year survival rates of over 75% in stage I disease  
(N0, tumour confined within visceral pleura) and  
55% in stage II disease, which includes resection in 
patients with ipsilateral peribronchial or hilar node 
involvement.
Fig. 19.51 Sputum sample showing a cluster of carcinoma cells. 
There is keratinisation, with orangeophilia of the cytoplasm. Non-
keratinised forms are also seen. The nuclei are large and ‘coal-black’ in 
density. These features suggest squamous cell bronchogenic carcinoma. 
Radiotherapy
While much less effective than surgery, radical radio-
therapy can offer long-term survival in selected patients 
with localised disease in whom comorbidity precludes 
surgery. Radical radiotherapy is usually combined with 
chemotherapy when lymph nodes are involved (stage III). 
Highly targeted (stereotactic) radiotherapy may be given 
in 3–5 treatments for small lesions.
The greatest value of radiotherapy, however, is in the 
palliation of distressing complications, such as superior 
Lymph node spread
Tumour stage
N1
(Ipsilateral hilar)
N0
(None)
N2
(Ipsilateral mediastinal
or subcarinal)
N3
(Contralateral or
supraclavicular)
T1 (<3 cm)
Ia (50%)
IIa (36%)
T2a (3–5 cm)
Ib (43%)
IIIa (19%)
IIIb (7%)
T2b (5–7 cm)
IIa (36%)
IIb (25%)
T3 (>7 cm)
IIb (25%)
IIIa (19%)
IIIa (19%)
IIIb (7%)
T4 (Invading heart,
vessels, oesophagus,
carina etc.)
IV (2%)
M1 Metastases present
Fig. 19.52 Tumour stage and 5-year survival in non-small cell lung cancer. The figure shows the relationship between tumour extent (size, 
lymph node status and metastases) and average prognosis (% survival at 5 years for each clinical stage). Adapted from Detterbeck 2009 - see p. 732.
703
RespiRatoRy disease
19
bronchoscopic laser treatment to clear tumour tissue 
and allow re-aeration of collapsed lung. The best 
results are achieved in tumours of the main bronchi. 
Endobronchial stents can be used to maintain airway 
patency in the face of extrinsic compression by malig-
nant nodes.
vena cava obstruction, recurrent haemoptysis, and pain 
caused by chest wall invasion or by skeletal metastatic 
deposits. Obstruction of the trachea and main bronchi 
can also be relieved temporarily. Radiotherapy can be 
used in conjunction with chemotherapy in the treatment 
of small-cell carcinoma, and is particularly efficient at 
preventing the development of brain metastases in 
patients who have had a complete response to chemo-
therapy (p. 277).
General aspects of management
The best outcomes are obtained when lung cancer is 
managed in specialist centres by multidisciplinary 
teams, including oncologists, thoracic surgeons, respira-
tory physicians and specialist nurses. Effective commu-
nication, pain relief and attention to diet are important. 
Lung tumours can cause clinically significant depression 
and anxiety, and these may need specific therapy. The 
management of non-metastatic endocrine manifesta-
tions is described in Chapter 20. When a malignant 
pleural effusion is present, an attempt should be made 
to drain the pleural cavity using an intercostal drain; 
provided the lung fully re-expands, pleurodesis with a 
sclerosing agent such as talc should be performed to 
prevent recurrent effusion.
Prognosis
The overall prognosis in bronchial carcinoma is very 
poor, with around 70% of patients dying within a year 
of diagnosis and only 6–8% of patients surviving 5 years 
after diagnosis. The best prognosis is with well-
differentiated squamous cell tumours that have not 
metastasised and are amenable to surgical resection. The 
clinical features and prognosis of some less common 
benign and malignant lung tumours are given in  
Box 19.74.
Secondary tumours of the lung
Chemotherapy
The treatment of small-cell carcinoma with combina-
tions of cytotoxic drugs, sometimes in combination with 
radiotherapy, can increase the median survival from  
3 months to well over a year. The use of combinations 
of chemotherapeutic drugs requires considerable skill 
and should be overseen by teams of clinical oncologists 
and specialist nurses. Combination chemotherapy leads 
to better outcomes than single-agent treatment. Regular 
cycles of therapy, including combinations of intra venous 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine or intra-
venous cisplatin and etoposide, are commonly used. In 
general, chemotherapy is less effective in non-small-cell 
bronchial cancers. However, studies in such patients 
using platinum-based chemotherapy regimens have 
shown a 30% response rate associated with a small 
increase in survival. Some non-small-cell lung tumours, 
particularly adenocarcinomas, carry detectable muta-
tions in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
gene. Patients with these mutations are particularly 
responsive to the tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and 
erlotinib.
In non-small-cell carcinoma, there is some evidence 
that chemotherapy given before surgery may increase 
survival and can effectively ‘down-stage’ disease with 
limited nodal spread. Post-operative chemotherapy is 
now proven to enhance survival rates when operative 
samples show nodal involvement by tumour.
Nausea and vomiting are common side-effects of 
chemotherapy and are best treated with 5-HT3 receptor 
antagonists (p. 289).
Blood-borne metastatic deposits in the lungs may be 
derived from many primary tumours, in particular those 
of the breast, kidney, uterus, ovary, testes and thyroid. 
The secondary deposits are usually multiple and bilat-
eral. Often there are no respiratory symptoms and  
the diagnosis is made on radiological examination. 
Breathlessness may occur if a considerable amount of 
lung tissue has been replaced by metastatic tumour. 
Laser therapy and stenting
Palliation of symptoms caused by major airway 
obstruction can be achieved in selected patients using 
19.74 Rare types of lung tumour
Tumour
Status
Histology
Typical presentation
Prognosis
Stage-dependent
Peripheral or central 
lung mass
Adenosquamous 
carcinoma
Malignant
Tumours with areas of 
unequivocal squamous and 
adeno-differentiation
Low-grade malignant
Neuroendocrine 
differentiation
Bronchial obstruction, 
cough
95% 5-yr survival with 
resection
Neuro-endocrine 
(carcinoid) 
tumour (p. 784)
Local resection curative
Bronchial gland 
adenoma
Benign
Salivary gland differentiation
Tracheobronchial 
irritation/obstruction
Local recurrence occurs
Bronchial gland 
carcinoma
Low-grade malignant
Salivary gland differentiation
Tracheobronchial 
irritation/obstruction
Hamartoma
Benign
Mesenchymal cells, cartilage
Peripheral lung nodule
Local resection curative
Variable, worse if multifocal
Bronchoalveolar 
carcinoma
Malignant
Tumour cells line alveolar 
spaces
Alveolar shadowing, 
productive cough
704
Tumours of the bronchus and lung 
Endobronchial deposits are uncommon but can cause 
haem optysis and lobar collapse.
Lymphatic infiltration may develop in patients with 
carcinoma of the breast, stomach, bowel, pancreas or 
bronchus. ‘Lymphangitic carcinomatosis’ causes severe 
and rapidly progressive breathlessness associated with 
marked hypoxaemia. The chest X-ray shows diffuse pul-
monary shadowing radiating from the hilar regions, 
often associated with septal lines, and CT demonstrates 
characteristic polygonal thickened interlobular septa. 
Palliation of breathlessness with opiates may help  
(p. 289).
Tumours of the mediastinum
Benign tumours and cysts in the mediastinum are 
often diagnosed when a chest X-ray is undertaken for 
some other reason. In general, they do not invade vital 
structures but may cause symptoms by compressing the 
trachea or the superior vena cava. A dermoid cyst may 
very occasionally rupture into a bronchus.
Malignant mediastinal tumours are distinguished by 
their power to invade as well as compress surrounding 
structures. As a result, even a small malignant tumour 
can produce symptoms, although more commonly the 
tumour has attained a considerable size before this 
happens (Box 19.76). The most common cause is medi-
astinal lymph node metastases from bronchogenic car-
cinoma, but lymphomas, leukaemia, malignant thymic 
tumours and germ-cell tumours can cause similar fea-
tures. Aortic and innominate aneurysms have destruc-
tive features resembling those of malignant mediastinal 
tumours.
Figure 19.53 shows the four major compartments of the 
mediastinum, and Box 19.75 lists likely causes of a medi-
astinal mass in each location.
19.76 Clinical features of malignant 
mediastinal invasion
19.75 Causes of a mediastinal mass
19
Trachea and main bronchi
• Stridor, breathlessness, cough, pulmonary collapse
Superior mediastinum
• Retrosternal goitre
• Persistent left superior 
Oesophagus
• Dysphagia, oesophageal displacement or obstruction on 
vena cava
barium swallow examination
• Prominent left subclavian 
• Thymic tumour
• Dermoid cyst
• Lymphoma
• Aortic aneurysm
artery
Phrenic nerve
• Diaphragmatic paralysis
Left recurrent laryngeal nerve
• Paralysis of left vocal cord with hoarseness and ‘bovine’ 
• Germ cell tumour
• Pericardial cyst
• Hiatus hernia through the 
cough
Anterior mediastinum
• Retrosternal goitre
• Dermoid cyst
• Thymic tumour
• Lymphoma
• Aortic aneurysm
diaphragmatic foramen of 
Morgagni
Sympathetic trunk
• Horner’s syndrome
• Aortic aneurysm
• Foregut duplication
Superior vena cava
• SVC obstruction: non-pulsatile distension of neck veins, 
Posterior mediastinum
• Neurogenic tumour
• Paravertebral abscess
• Oesophageal lesion
subconjunctival oedema, and oedema and cyanosis of  
head, neck, hands and arms. Dilated anastomotic veins  
on chest wall
• Bronchogenic cyst
• Hiatus hernia
Pericardium
• Pericarditis and/or pericardial effusion
Middle mediastinum
• Bronchial carcinoma
• Lymphoma
• Sarcoidosis
Retrosternal thyroid
1
Thymus
Lower border of
manubrium sterni
Lower border of
4th thoracic vertebra
Teratoma
Dermoid
Lymphoid masses
3
2
Neurogenic tumour
4
Pleuropericardial cyst
Fig. 19.53 The divisions of the mediastinum. (1) Superior mediastinum. (2) Anterior mediastinum. (3) Middle mediastinum. (4) Posterior 
mediastinum. Sites of the more common mediastinal tumours are also illustrated. From Johnson 1986 – see p. 732.
705
RespiRatoRy disease
19
19.77 Features common to the diffuse 
parenchymal lung diseases
Clinical presentation
• Cough: usually dry, persistent and distressing
• Breathlessness: usually slowly progressive; insidious onset; 
acute in some cases
Examination findings
• Crackles: typically bilateral and basal
• Clubbing: common in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis but also 
seen in other types, e.g. asbestosis
• Central cyanosis and signs of right heart failure in advanced 
disease
Radiology
• Chest X-ray: typically small lung volumes with reticulonodular 
shadowing but may be normal in early or limited disease
• HRCT: combinations of ground glass changes, reticulonodular 
shadowing, honeycomb cysts and traction bronchiectasis, 
depending on stage of disease
Pulmonary function
• Typically restrictive ventilatory defect with reduced lung 
Fig. 19.54 Intrathoracic goitre (arrows) extending from right 
upper mediastinum. 
volumes and impaired gas transfer; exercise tests assess 
exercise tolerance and exercise-related fall in SaO2
19.78 Conditions that mimic diffuse parenchymal 
lung disease
Infection
• Viral pneumonia
• Pneumocystis jirovecii
• Mycoplasma pneumoniae
• Tuberculosis
• Parasite, e.g. filariasis
• Fungal infection
• Bronchoalveolar  
Investigations
A benign mediastinal tumour generally appears on chest 
X-ray as a sharply circumscribed mediastinal opacity 
encroaching on one or both lung fields (Fig. 19.54). CT 
(or MRI) is the investigation of choice for mediastinal 
tumours (e.g. see Fig. 20.11B, p. 753). A malignant medi-
astinal tumour seldom has a clearly defined margin  
and often presents as a general broadening of the 
mediastinum.
Bronchoscopy may reveal a primary bronchial carci-
carcinoma
Malignancy
• Leukaemia and lymphoma
• Lymphatic carcinomatosis
• Multiple metastases
Pulmonary oedema
Aspiration pneumonitis
noma causing mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Endo-
bronchial ultrasound may be used to guide sampling of 
peribronchial masses. The posterior mediastinum can be 
imaged and biopsied via the oesophagus using endo-
scopic ultrasound (p. 651).
Mediastinoscopy under general anaesthetic can be 
used to visualise and biopsy masses in the superior and 
anterior mediastinum, but surgical exploration of the 
chest, with removal of part or all of the tumour, is often 
required to obtain a histological diagnosis.
Management
Benign mediastinal tumours should be removed surgi-
cally because most produce symptoms sooner or later. 
Cysts may become infected, while neural tumours have 
the potential to undergo malignant transformation. The 
operative mortality is low in the absence of coexisting 
cardiovascular disease, COPD or extreme age.
INTERSTITIAL AND INFILTRATIVE 
PULMONARY DISEASES
share a sufficient number of clinical physiological and 
radiographic similarities (Box 19.77). The current clas-
sification is shown in Figure 19.55 and the potential dif-
ferential diagnoses in Box 19.78. They often present with 
a cough that is typically dry and distressing, and breath-
lessness that is frequently insidious in onset but thereaf-
ter relentlessly progressive. Physical examination reveals 
the presence of inspiratory crackles and in many cases 
digital clubbing develops. Pulmonary function tests 
typically show a restrictive ventilatory defect in the pres-
ence of small lung volumes and reduced gas transfer. 
The typical radiographic findings include ground glass 
and reticulonodular shadowing in the earliest stages, 
with progression to honeycomb cysts and traction bron-
chiectasis. Whilst these appearances may be seen on a 
‘plain’ chest X-ray, they are most easily appreciated on 
HRCT, which has assumed a central role in the evalua-
tion of DPLD (Fig. 19.56).
Diffuse parenchymal lung disease
706
The diffuse parenchymal lung diseases (DPLDs) are a 
heterogeneous group of conditions affecting the pulmo-
nary parenchyma (interstitium) and/or alveolar lumen, 
which are frequently considered collectively as they 
Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias
The idiopathic interstitial pneumonias represent a major 
subgroup of DPLDs that are grouped together because 
Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases
Diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD)
Idiopathic interstitial
pneumonia
Granulomatous DPLD,
e.g. sarcoidosis
Other forms of DPLD, e.g.
lymphangioleiomyomatosis,
histiocytosis X etc.
DPLD of known cause,
e.g. drugs or association
with connective tissue
disease
Idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis
Idiopathic interstitial
pneumonia other
than idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis
Desquamative interstitial
pneumonia
Respiratory bronchiolitis
interstitial lung disease
Acute interstitial
pneumonia
Cryptogenic organising
pneumonia
Non-specific interstitial
pneumonia
Lymphocytic interstitial
pneumonia
19
Fig. 19.55 Classification of diffuse parenchymal lung disease. 
Clinical assessment including chest X-ray, pulmonary function tests, haematology,
biochemical and immunological investigations
High-resolution CT
Inconsistent clinical or
CT appearances
Appearances consistent
with usual interstitial
pneumonia
Appearances consistent
with another diffuse
parenchymal lung disease,
e.g. sarcoid
Diagnose idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis
Diagnose and treat
accordingly
Further investigations, e.g.
bronchoalveolar lavage,
transbronchial biopsy,
surgical biopsy
Fig. 19.56 Algorithm for the investigation of patients with interstitial lung disease following initial clinical and chest X-ray examination. 
or connective tissue diseases, which must be excluded 
by careful history, examination and investigation.
The histological features of the condition are sugges-
of their unknown aetiology (Box 19.79). They are often 
distinguished by the predominant histological pattern 
on tissue biopsy; hence they are frequently referred  
to by their pathological description – for example,  
usual interstitial pneumonia or non-specific interstitial 
pneumonia. The most important of these is idiopathic 
pulmonary fibrosis.
tive of repeated episodes of focal damage to the alveolar 
epithelium consistent with an autoimmune process but 
the aetiology remains elusive; speculation has included 
exposure to viruses (e.g. Epstein–Barr virus), occupa-
tional dusts (metal or wood), drugs (antidepressants) or 
chronic gastro-oesophageal reflux. Familial cases are 
rare but genetic factors that control the inflammatory 
and fibrotic response are likely to be important. There is 
a strong association with cigarette smoking.
707
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is defined as a pro-
gressive fibrosing interstitial pneumonia of unknown 
cause, occurring in adults and associated with the histo-
logical or radiological pattern of usual interstitial pneu-
monia (UIP). Important differentials include fibrosing 
diseases caused by occupational exposure, medication 
Clinical features
IPF usually presents in the older adult and is uncommon 
before the age of 50 years. With the advent of 
RespiRatoRy disease
19.79 Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias
19
Clinical diagnosis
Notes
Usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis – see text
Non-specific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP)
See page 709
Respiratory bronchiolitis–interstitial lung 
disease
More common in men and smokers. Usually presents at age 40–60 yrs. Smoking 
cessation may lead to improvement. Natural history unclear
Acute interstitial pneumonia
Often preceded by viral upper respiratory tract infection. Severe exertional dyspnoea, 
widespread pneumonic consolidation and diffuse alveolar damage on biopsy. Prognosis 
often poor
Desquamative interstitial pneumonia (DIP)
More common in men and smokers. Presents at age 40–60 yrs. Insidious onset of 
dyspnoea. Clubbing in 50%. Biopsy shows increased macrophages in alveolar space, 
septal thickening and type II pneumocyte hyperplasia. Prognosis generally good
Cryptogenic organising pneumonia 
(‘bronchiolitis obliterans organising 
pneumonia’ – BOOP)
Presents as clinical and radiological pneumonia. Systemic features and markedly 
raised ESR common. Finger clubbing absent. Biopsy shows florid proliferation of 
immature collagen (Masson bodies) and fibrous tissue. Response to corticosteroids 
classically excellent
Lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia (LIP)
More common in women, slow onset over years. Investigate for associations with 
connective tissue disease or HIV. Unclear whether corticosteroids helpful
19.80 Investigations in diffuse parenchymal 
lung disease
Laboratory investigations
• Full blood count: lymphopenia in sarcoid; eosinophilia in 
pulmonary eosinophilias and drug reactions; neutrophilia in 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis
widespread CT scanning, it may present as an incidental 
finding in an otherwise asymptomatic individual but 
more typically presents with progressive breathlessness 
(which may have been insidious) and a non-productive 
cough. Constitutional symptoms are unusual. Clinical 
findings include finger clubbing and the presence of 
bi-basal fine late inspiratory crackles likened to the 
unfastening of Velcro.
• Ca2+: may be elevated in sarcoid
• Lactate dehydrogenase: may be elevated in active alveolitis
• Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme: non-specific indicator 
of disease activity in sarcoid
• ESR and CRP: non-specifically raised
• Autoimmune screen: anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide 
(anti-CCP) and other autoantibodies may suggest connective 
tissue disease
Radiology (see Box 19.77)
Pulmonary function (see Box 19.77)
Bronchoscopy
• Bronchoalveolar lavage: differential cell counts may point to 
sarcoid and drug-induced pneumonitis, pulmonary 
eosinophilias, hypersensitivity pneumonitis or cryptogenic 
organising pneumonia; useful to exclude infection
• Transbronchial biopsy: useful in sarcoid and differential of 
malignancy or infection
Investigations
These are summarised in Box 19.80. Established IPF will 
be apparent on chest X-ray as bilateral lower lobe and 
subpleural reticular shadowing. However, the chest 
X-ray may be normal in individuals with early or limited 
disease. HRCT typically demonstrates a patchy, pre-
dominantly peripheral, subpleural and basal reticular 
pattern and, in more advanced disease, the presence of 
honeycombing cysts and traction bronchiectasis (Fig. 
19.57). When these features are present, HRCT has a 
high positive predictive value for the diagnosis of IPF 
and recourse to biopsy is seldom necessary. HRCT 
appearances may also be sufficiently characteristic to 
suggest an alternative diagnosis such as hypersensitivity 
pneumonitis (p. 719) or sarcoidosis (p. 709). The pres-
ence of pleural plaques may suggest asbestosis (p. 718).
Pulmonary function tests classically show a restric-
• Bronchial biopsy: occasionally useful in sarcoid
Video-assisted thorascopic lung biopsy (in selected cases)
• Allows pathological classification: presence of asbestos 
bodies may suggest asbestosis, silica in occupational 
fibrosing lung disease
Others
• Liver biopsy: may be useful in sarcoidosis
• Urinary calcium excretion: may be useful in sarcoidosis
encountered in IPF (Fig. 19.58). However, it is also found 
in asbestosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, connective 
tissue diseases and drug reactions.
It is not uncommon to identify mildly positive anti-
708
nuclear antibodies or anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide 
(anti-CCP), in which case repeat serological testing 
should be performed, as lung disease may precede the 
appearance of connective tissue disease.
tive defect with reduced lung volumes and gas transfer. 
However, lung volumes may be preserved in patients 
with concomitant emphysema. Dynamic tests are  
useful to document exercise tolerance and demonstrate 
exercise-induced arterial hypoxaemia, but as IPF 
advances, arterial hypoxaemia and hypocapnia are 
present at rest.
Bronchoscopy is seldom necessary unless there is a 
significant possibility of infection or a malignant process; 
lymphocytosis may suggest chronic hypersensitivity 
pneumonitis. The tissue samples obtained by transbron-
chial lung biopsy are invariably insufficient to be of 
value and, if tissue is required, a surgical lung biopsy 
should be performed. Lung biopsy should be considered 
in cases of diagnostic uncertainty or with atypical fea-
tures. UIP is the histological pattern predominantly 
Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases
Management and prognosis
Treatment is difficult. Although the combination of 
prednisolone, azathioprine and N-acetylcysteine had 
shown some promise, large studies suggest that it is 
mostly ineffective. Disappointing results have also been 
reported for trials of colchicine, interferon-γ 1b, bosentan 
and etanercept. Subject to further investigation, pirfeni-
done may slow the rate of decline of lung function and, 
by inference, improve mortality. It remains sensible to 
treat gastro-oesophageal reflux and to look for and treat 
A
19
pulmonary hypertension but, where possible, treatment 
with experimental agents outside clinical trials should 
not be tried. Where appropriate, lung transplantation 
should be considered. Oxygen may help breathlessness 
but opiates may be required to relieve severe dyspnoea. 
The optimum treatment for acute exacerbations is 
unknown but corticosteroids should probably be used.
The natural history is usually one of steady decline 
but some patients are prone to exacerbations, which are 
accompanied by an acute deterioration in breathless-
ness, disturbed gas exchange, and new ground glass 
changes or consolidation on HRCT. In advanced disease, 
central cyanosis is detectable and patients may develop 
features of right heart failure. A median survival of  
3 years is widely quoted; however, the rate of disease 
progression varies considerably, from death within a 
few months to survival with minimal symptoms for 
many years. Serial lung function testing may provide 
useful prognostic information, with relative preserva-
tion of lung function suggesting longer survival, and 
significantly impaired gas transfer and/or desaturation 
on exercise heralding a poorer prognosis. The finding of 
high numbers of fibroblastic foci on biopsy suggests a 
more rapid deterioration. IPF is associated with an 
increased risk of carcinoma of the lung.
B
Non-specific interstitial pneumonia
The clinical picture of fibrotic non-specific interstitial 
pneumonia (NSIP) is similar to that of IPF, although 
patients tend to be women and younger in age. As with 
UIP, the condition may present as an isolated idiopathic 
pulmonary condition, but an NSIP pattern is often asso-
ciated with connective tissue disease, certain drugs, 
chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis and HIV infection; 
care must be taken to identify these possibilities, as the 
pulmonary condition may precede the appearance of 
connective tissue disease. HRCT findings are less spe-
cific than with IPF and lung biopsy may be required. The 
prognosis is significantly better than that of IPF, particu-
larly in the cellular form of the condition, and the 5-year 
mortality rate is typically less than 15%.
Fig. 19.57 Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.  A Chest X-ray showing 
bilateral, predominantly lower-zone and peripheral coarse reticulonodular 
shadowing and small lungs.  B The CT scan shows honeycombing and 
scarring which is most marked peripherally. 
Sarcoidosis
Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disorder  
of unknown aetiology characterised by the presence of 
non-caseating granulomas (Fig. 19.59). It is more often 
described in colder parts of northern Europe. It also 
appears to be more common and more severe in those 
A
B
Fig. 19.58 Pathology of usual 
interstitial pneumonia.  A Lung tissue 
showing subpleural scarring, most 
prominently down the posterior edge of  
the lower lobe. This distribution of fibrosis 
is typical of usual interstitial pneumonitis. 
The fibrosis may be associated with 
prominent cystic change known as 
‘honeycomb lung’.  B Histology showing 
severe interstitial fibrosis with loss of the 
normal alveolar architecture and the 
development of ‘honeycomb’ cysts. 
709
RespiRatoRy disease
19
supported by familial clustering; a range of class II HLA 
alleles confer protection from or susceptibility to the 
condition. Sarcoidosis occurs less frequently in smokers.
from a West Indian or Asian background, while Eskimos, 
Arabs and Chinese are rarely affected. The tendency  
for sarcoid to present in spring and summer has led  
to speculation about the role of infective agents, includ-
ing mycobacteria, propionibacteria and viruses, but 
the cause remains elusive. Genetic susceptibility is  
Clinical features
Sarcoidosis is considered with other DPLDs, as over 90% 
of cases affect the lungs, but the condition can involve 
almost any organ (Fig. 19.60 and Box 19.81). Löfgren’s 
syndrome – an acute illness characterised by erythema 
nodosum, peripheral arthropathy, uveitis, bilateral hilar 
lymphadenopathy (BHL), lethargy and occasionally 
fever – is often seen in young women. Alternatively, 
BHL may be detected in an otherwise asymptomatic 
individual undergoing a chest X-ray for other purposes. 
19.81 Presentation of sarcoidosis
• Asymptomatic: abnormal routine chest X-ray (~30%) or 
abnormal liver function tests
• Respiratory and constitutional symptoms (20–30%)
• Erythema nodosum and arthralgia (20–30%)
• Ocular symptoms (5–10%)
• Skin sarcoid (including lupus pernio) (5%)
• Superficial lymphadenopathy (5%)
• Other (1%), e.g. hypercalcaemia, diabetes insipidus, cranial 
nerve palsies, cardiac arrhythmias, nephrocalcinosis
Fig. 19.59 Sarcoidosis of the lung. Histology showing non-caseating 
granulomas (arrows). 
Lacrimal gland enlargement
Parotid gland enlargement
Pachymeningitis
Space-occupying lesion
Diabetes insipidus
Anterior uveitis
Sicca syndrome
Lymphadenopathy
Bilateral hilar
lymphadenopathy (BHL)
Cardiac arrhythmia
Heart block, sudden death
Nasal cutaneous sarcoid
lesions (lupus pernio)
Splenomegaly
Cranial nerve palsy
Interstitial lung disease
Nephrocalcinosis
Hypercalciuria
Renal stones
Granulomatous liver disease
Phalangeal bone cysts
Skin plaques and nodules
Infiltration of scars
Arthropathies
Osteoporosis
Erythema nodosum
Mononeuritis multiplex
Peripheral neuropathy
Arthropathies
Osteoporosis
710
Fig. 19.60 Possible systemic involvement in sarcoidosis. Inset (Erythema nodosum) From Savin et al. 1997 – see p. 732. 
Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases
19.83 Systemic corticosteroids in 
pulmonary sarcoidosis
‘Oral glucocorticoids administered for 6–24 months improve 
chest X-ray appearances and symptoms, but there is little 
evidence of an improvement in lung function and there are no 
data from follow-up beyond 2 years.’
• Paramothayan NS, et al. Corticosteroids for pulmonary sarcoidosis. Cochrane 
Database of Systematic Reviews, 2005, issue 2. Art. no.: CD001114.
Pulmonary disease may also present in a more insidious 
manner with cough, exertional breathlessness and radio-
graphic infiltrates; chest auscultation is often unremark-
able. Fibrosis occurs in 20% of cases of pulmonary 
sarcoidosis and may cause a silent loss of lung function. 
Pleural disease is uncommon and finger clubbing not a 
feature. Complications such as bronchiectasis, aspergil-
loma, pneumothorax, pulmonary hypertension and cor 
pulmonale have been reported but are rare.
19
Investigations
Lymphopenia is characteristic and liver function  
tests may be mildly deranged. Hypercalcaemia may be 
present (reflecting increased formation of calcitrol – 
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 – by alveolar macrophages), 
particularly if the patient has been exposed to strong 
sunlight. Hypercalciuria may also be seen and may lead 
to nephrocalcinosis. Serum ACE may provide a non-
specific marker of disease activity and can assist in 
moni toring the clinical course. Chest radiography has 
been used to stage sarcoid (Box 19.82). In patients with 
pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary function testing may 
show a restrictive defect accompanied by impaired gas 
exchange. Exercise tests may reveal oxygen desatura-
tion. Bronchoscopy may demonstrate a ‘cobblestone’ 
appearance of the mucosa, and bronchial and transbron-
chial biopsy usually shows non-caseating granulomas. 
The BAL fluid typically contains an increased CD4:CD8 
T-cell ratio. Characteristic HRCT appearances include 
reticulonodular opacities that follow a perilymphatic 
distribution, centred on bronchovascular bundles and 
the subpleural areas.
The occurrence of erythema nodosum with BHL on 
chest X-ray is often sufficient for a confident diagnosis, 
without recourse to a tissue biopsy. Similarly, a typical 
presentation with classical HRCT features may also be 
accepted. Otherwise, the diagnosis should be confirmed 
by histological examination of the involved organ. The 
presence of anergy (e.g. to tuberculin skin tests) may 
support the diagnosis.
severe, a short course of corticosteroids. The majority of 
patients enjoy spontaneous remission and so, if there is 
no evidence of organ damage, systemic corticosteroid 
therapy can be withheld for 6 months. However, pred-
nisolone (at a starting dose of 20–40 mg/day) should be 
commenced immediately in the presence of hypercalcae-
mia, pulmonary impairment, renal impairment and 
uveitis (Box 19.83). Topical steroids may be useful in 
cases of mild uveitis, and inhaled corticosteroids have 
been used to shorten the duration of systemic cortico-
steroid use in asymptomatic parenchymal sarcoid. 
Patients should be warned that strong sunlight  
might precipitate hypercalcaemia and endanger renal 
function.
Features suggesting a less favourable outlook include 
age over 40 years, Afro-Caribbean ethnicity, persistent 
symptoms for more than 6 months, the involvement of 
more than three organs, lupus pernio and a stage III/IV 
chest X-ray. In patients with severe disease, methotrex-
ate (10–20 mg/week), azathioprine (50–150 mg/day) 
and the use of specific tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α 
inhibitors (p. 1102) have been effective. Chloroquine, 
hydroxychloroquine and low-dose thalidomide may be 
useful in cutaneous sarcoid with limited pulmonary 
involvement. Selected patients may be referred for con-
sideration of single lung transplantation. The overall 
mortality is low (1–5%) and usually reflects cardiac 
involvement or pulmonary fibrosis.
Management
Patients who present with acute illness and erythema 
nodosum are treated with NSAIDs and, if disease is 
Lung diseases due to systemic 
inflammatory disease
19.82 Chest X-ray changes in sarcoidosis
Acute respiratory distress 
syndrome
See page 192.
Stage I: BHL (usually symmetrical); paratracheal nodes  
often enlarged
• Often asymptomatic, but may be associated with erythema 
nodosum and arthralgia. The majority of cases resolve 
spontaneously within 1 yr
Stage II: BHL and parenchymal infiltrates
• Patients may present with breathlessness or cough. The 
majority of cases resolve spontaneously
Stage III: parenchymal infiltrates without BHL
• Disease less likely to resolve spontaneously
Stage IV: pulmonary fibrosis
• Can cause progression to ventilatory failure, pulmonary 
hypertension and cor pulmonale
(BHL = bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy)
711
Respiratory involvement in 
connective tissue disorders
Pulmonary complications of connective tissue disease 
are common, and affect the airways, alveoli, pulmonary 
vasculature, diaphragm and chest wall muscles, and 
chest wall itself (Box 19.84). In some instances, pulmo-
nary disease may precede the appearance of the connec-
tive tissue disorder. Indirect associations between 
connective tissue disorders and respiratory complica-
tions include those due to disease in other organs, e.g. 
thrombocytopenia causing haemoptysis; pulmonary 
toxic effects of drugs used to treat the connective tissue 
disorder, e.g. gold and methotrexate; and secondary 
infection due to the disease itself, neutropenia or 
immuno suppressive drug regimens.
RespiRatoRy disease
19.84 Respiratory complications of connective tissue disorders
19
Disorder
Airways
Parenchyma
Pleura
Diaphragm and  
chest wall
Pleurisy, effusion, 
pneumothorax
Poor healing of 
intercostal drain sites
Pulmonary fibrosis, 
nodules, upper lobe 
fibrosis, infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
Bronchitis, obliterative 
bronchiolitis, 
bronchiectasis, crico-
arytenoid arthritis, stridor
Systemic lupus 
erythematosus
–
Pulmonary fibrosis, 
‘vasculitic’ infarcts
Pleurisy, effusion
Diaphragmatic 
weakness (shrinking 
lungs)
Systemic sclerosis
Bronchiectasis
Pulmonary fibrosis, 
aspiration pneumonia
–
Cutaneous thoracic 
restriction (hidebound 
chest)
Dermatomyositis/
polymyositis
Bronchial carcinoma
Pulmonary fibrosis
–
Intercostal and 
diaphragmatic myopathy
Rheumatic fever
–
Pneumonia
Pleurisy, effusion
–
Fig. 19.61 Rheumatoid (necrobiotic) nodules. Thoracic CT just 
below the level of the main carina showing the typical appearance of 
peripheral pleural-based nodules. The nodule in the left lower lobe shows 
characteristic cavitation. 
Rheumatoid disease
Pulmonary involvement in rheumatoid arthritis is 
important, accounting for around 10–20% of the mortal-
ity associated with the condition (p. 1096). The majority 
of cases occur within 5 years of the rheumatological 
diagnosis but pulmonary manifestations may precede 
joint involvement in 10–20%. Pulmonary fibrosis is the 
most common pulmonary manifestation. All forms of 
interstitial disease have been described but NSIP is prob-
ably the most frequent. A rare variant of localised upper 
lobe fibrosis and cavitation is occasionally seen.
Pleural effusion is common, especially in men with 
seropositive disease. Effusions are usually small and 
unilateral but can be large and bilateral. Most resolve 
spontaneously. Biochemical testing shows an exudate 
with markedly reduced glucose levels and raised LDH. 
Effusions that fail to resolve spontaneously may respond 
to a short course of oral prednisolone (30–40 mg daily) 
but some become chronic.
Rheumatoid pulmonary nodules are usually asymp-
attributed incorrectly to infection or pulmonary embo-
lism. Up to two-thirds of patients have repeated episodes 
of pleurisy, with or without effusions. Effusions may be 
bilateral and may also involve the pericardium.
The most serious manifestation of lupus is an acute 
alveolitis, which may be associated with diffuse alveolar 
haemorrhage. This condition is life-threatening and 
requires immunosuppression.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a relatively uncommon mani-
tomatic and detected incidentally on imaging. They  
are usually multiple and subpleural in site (Fig. 19.61). 
Solitary nodules can mimic primary bronchial carci-
noma and, when they are multiple, the differential diag-
noses include pulmonary metastatic disease. Cavitation 
raises the possibility of tuberculosis and predisposes 
to pneumothorax. The combination of rheumatoid 
nodules and pneumoconiosis is known as Caplan’s syn-
drome (p. 717).
Bronchitis and bronchiectasis are both more common 
in rheumatoid patients. Rarely, the potentially fatal con-
dition called obliterative bronchiolitis may develop. Bac-
terial lower respiratory tract infections are frequent. 
Treatments given for rheumatoid arthritis may also be 
relevant: corticosteroid therapy predisposes to infec-
tions, methotrexate may cause pulmonary fibrosis, and 
anti-TNF therapy has been associated with the reactiva-
tion of tuberculosis.
festation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Some 
patients with SLE present with exertional dyspnoea and 
orthopnoea but without overt signs of pulmonary fibro-
sis. The chest X-ray reveals elevated diaphragms, and 
pulmonary function testing shows reduced lung 
volumes. This condition has been described as ‘shrink-
ing lungs’ and has been attributed to diaphragmatic 
myopathy.
SLE patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are at 
increased risk of venous and pulmonary thromboembo-
lism and require life-long anticoagulation.
Systemic lupus erythematosus
Pleuropulmonary involvement is more common in lupus 
than in any other connective tissue disorder and may be 
a presenting problem, in which case it is sometimes 
712
Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases
Systemic sclerosis
Most patients with systemic sclerosis (p. 1112) eventu-
ally develop diffuse pulmonary fibrosis; at necropsy, 
more than 90% have evidence of lung fibrosis. In some 
patients, it is indolent but when progressive, as in IPF, 
the median survival time is around 4 years. Pulmonary 
fibrosis is rare in the CREST variant of progressive sys-
temic sclerosis but isolated pulmonary hypertension 
may develop.
Other pulmonary complications include recurrent 
aspiration pneumonias secondary to oesophageal 
disease. Rarely, sclerosis of the skin of the chest wall 
may be so extensive and cicatrising as to restrict chest 
wall movement – this constitutes the so-called ‘hide-
bound chest’.
Chronic eosinophilic pneumonia
Chronic eosinophilic pneumonia typically presents in  
an insidious manner with malaise, fever, weight loss, 
breathlessness and unproductive cough. The condition 
is more common in middle-aged females. The classical 
chest X-ray appearance has been likened to the photo-
graphic negative of pulmonary oedema with bilateral, 
peripheral and predominantly upper lobe parenchymal 
shadowing. The peripheral blood eosinophil count is 
almost always very high, and the ESR and total serum 
IgE are elevated. BAL reveals a high proportion of eosi-
nophils in the lavage fluid. Response to prednisolone 
(20–40 mg daily) is usually dramatic. Prednisolone  
can usually be withdrawn after a few weeks without 
relapse, but long-term, low-dose therapy is occasionally 
necessary.
Pulmonary eosinophilia and vasculitides
19
Pulmonary eosinophilia refers to the association of 
radio graphic (usually pneumonic) abnormalities and 
peripheral blood eosinophilia. The term encompasses a 
group of disorders of different aetiology (Box 19.85). 
Eosinophils are the predominant cell recovered in 
sputum or BAL, and eosinophil products are likely to be 
the prime mediators of tissue damage.
Tropical pulmonary eosinophilia
Tropical pulmonary eosinophilia occurs as a result  
of a mosquito-borne filarial infection caused by the  
tissue-dwelling human nematode Wuchereria bancrofti or 
Brugia malayi. The condition presents with fever, weight 
loss, dyspnoea and asthma-like symptoms. There is 
marked peripheral blood eosinophilia and elevation of 
total IgE. High antifilarial antibody titres are seen. The 
diagnosis may be confirmed by a response to treatment 
with diethylcarbamazine (6 mg/kg/day for 3 weeks). 
Tropical pulmonary eosinophilia must be distinguished 
from infection with Strongyloides stercoralis (p. 370), 
as corticosteroids may cause life-threatening dissemi-
nation in the latter. Ascariasis (‘larva migrans’) and 
other hookworm infestations are described in detail in 
Chapter 13.
Acute eosinophilic pneumonia
Acute eosinophilic pneumonia is an acute febrile illness 
(of less than 5 days’ duration) characterised by diffuse 
pulmonary infiltrates and hypoxic respiratory failure. 
The pathology is usually that of diffuse alveolar damage. 
Diagnosis is confirmed by BAL, which characteristically 
demonstrates more than 25% eosinophils. The condition 
is usually idiopathic but drug reactions should be con-
sidered. Corticosteroids invariably induce prompt and 
complete resolution.
19.85 Pulmonary eosinophilia
Extrinsic (cause known)
• Helminths: e.g. Ascaris, Toxocara, Filaria
• Drugs: nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS), 
sulfasalazine, imipramine, chlorpropamide,  
phenylbutazone
• Fungi: e.g. Aspergillus fumigatus causing allergic 
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697)
Intrinsic (cause unknown)
• Cryptogenic eosinophilic pneumonia
• Churg–Strauss syndrome, diagnosed on the basis of ≥ 4 of 
the following features:
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (also known as  
Wegener’s granulomatosis) is a rare vasculitic and  
granulomatous condition (p. 1118). The lung is com-
monly involved in systemic forms of the condition but 
a limited pulmonary form may also occur. Respiratory 
symptoms include cough, haemoptysis and chest pain. 
Associated upper respiratory tract manifestations 
include nasal discharge and crusting, and otitis media. 
Fever, weight loss and anaemia are common. Radiologi-
cal features include multiple nodules and cavitation that 
may resemble primary or metastatic carcinoma, or a pul-
monary abscess. Tissue biopsy confirms the distinctive 
pattern of necrotising granulomas and necrotising vas-
culitis. Other respiratory complications of granulomato-
sis with polyangiitis include tracheal subglottic stenosis 
and saddle nose deformity. The differential diagnoses 
include mycobacterial and fungal infection and other 
forms of pulmonary vasculitis, including polyarteritis 
nodosa (pulmonary infarction), microscopic polyangi-
itis, Churg–Strauss syndrome (in which there is marked 
tissue eosinophilia and association with asthma), necro-
tising sarcoid, bronchocentric granulomatosis and lym-
phomatoid granulomatosis.
Asthma
Peripheral blood eosinophilia > 1.5 × 109/L (or > 10% of a 
total white cell count)
Mononeuropathy or polyneuropathy
Pulmonary infiltrates
Paranasal sinus disease
Eosinophilic vasculitis on biopsy of an affected site
• Hypereosinophilic syndrome
• Polyarteritis nodosa (p. 1117; rare)
Goodpasture’s syndrome
This describes the association of pulmonary haemor-
rhage and glomerulonephritis, in which IgG antibodies 
713
RespiRatoRy disease
19.86 Drug-induced respiratory disease
19
bind to the glomerular or alveolar basement membranes 
(see Box 17.39, p. 499). Pulmonary disease usually pre-
cedes renal involvement and includes radiographic infil-
trates and hypoxia with or without haemoptysis. It 
occurs more commonly in men and almost exclusively 
in smokers.
Non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema (ARDS)
• Hydrochlorothiazide
• Thrombolytics (streptokinase)
• IV β-adrenoceptor agonists (e.g. for premature 
labour)
• Aspirin and opiates (in overdose)
Lung diseases due to irradiation  
and drugs
Non-eosinophilic alveolitis
• Amiodarone, flecainide, gold, nitrofurantoin, cytotoxic  
agents – especially bleomycin, busulfan, mitomycin C, 
methotrexate, sulfasalazine
Pulmonary eosinophilia
• Antimicrobials (nitrofurantoin, penicillin, tetracyclines, 
sulphonamides, nalidixic acid)
• Drugs used in joint disease (gold, aspirin, penicillamine, 
naproxen)
• Cytotoxic drugs (bleomycin, methotrexate, procarbazine)
• Psychotropic drugs (chlorpromazine, dosulepin,  
imipramine)
• Anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, phenytoin)
• Others (sulfasalazine, nadolol)
Pleural disease
• Bromocriptine, amiodarone, methotrexate,  
methysergide
• Induction of SLE – phenytoin, hydralazine,  
isoniazid
Radiotherapy
Targeting radiotherapy to certain tumours is inevitably 
accompanied by irradiation of normal lung tissue. 
Although delivered in divided doses, the effects are 
cumulative. Acute radiation pneumonitis is typically 
seen within 6–12 weeks and presents with cough and 
dyspnoea. This may resolve spontaneously but responds 
to corticosteroid treatment. Chronic interstitial fibrosis 
may present several months later with symptoms of 
exertional dyspnoea and cough. Changes are often con-
fined to the area irradiated but may be bilateral. Estab-
lished post-irradiation fibrosis does not usually respond 
to corticosteroid treatment. The pulmonary effects of 
radiation (p. 277) are exacerbated by treatment with 
cytotoxic drugs and the phenomenon of ‘recall pneumo-
nitis’ describes the appearance of radiation injury in a 
previously irradiated area, when chemotherapy follows 
radiotherapy. If the patient survives, there are long-term 
risks of lung cancer.
Asthma
• Pharmacological mechanisms (β-blockers, cholinergic 
agonists, aspirin and NSAIDs)
• Idiosyncratic reactions (tamoxifen, dipyridamole)
19.87 Interstitial lung disease in old age
• Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: the most common interstitial 
lung disease, with a worse prognosis.
• Chronic aspiration pneumonitis: must always be 
considered in elderly patients presenting with bilateral basal 
shadowing on a chest X-ray.
• Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener’s 
granulomatosis): a rare condition but more common in old 
age. Renal involvement is more common at presentation and 
upper respiratory problems are fewer.
• Asbestosis: symptoms may only appear in old age because 
of the prolonged latent period between exposure and 
disease.
• Drug-induced interstitial lung disease: more common, 
presumably because of the increased chance of exposure to 
multiple drugs.
• Rarer interstitial disease: sarcoidosis, idiopathic pulmonary 
haemosiderosis, alveolar proteinosis and eosinophilic 
pneumonia rarely present.
• Increased dyspnoea: coexistent muscle weakness, chest 
Drugs
Drugs may cause a range of pulmonary conditions (Box 
19.86). Pulmonary fibrosis may occur in response to a 
variety of drugs, but is seen most frequently with bleo-
mycin, methotrexate, amiodarone and nitrofurantoin. 
Eosinophilic pulmonary reactions can also be caused by 
drugs. The pathogenesis may be an immune reaction 
similar to that in hypersensitivity pneumonitis, which 
specifically attracts large numbers of eosinophils into the 
lungs. This type of reaction is well described as a rare 
reaction to a variety of antineoplastic agents (e.g. bleo-
mycin), antibiotics (e.g. sulphonamides), sulfasalazine 
and the anticonvulsants phenytoin and carbamazepine. 
Patients usually present with breathlessness, cough and 
fever. The chest X-ray characteristically shows patchy 
shadowing. Most cases resolve completely on with-
drawal of the drug, but if the reaction is severe, rapid 
resolution can be obtained with corticosteroids.
Drugs may also cause other lung diseases, such as 
asthma, pulmonary haemorrhage and pleural disease. 
An ARDS-like syndrome of acute non-cardiogenic pul-
monary oedema may present with dramatic onset of 
breathlessness, severe hypoxaemia and signs of alveolar 
oedema on the chest X-ray. This syndrome has been 
reported most frequently in cases of opiate overdose in 
drug addicts (p. 219) but also after salicylate overdose, 
and occasionally after therapeutic doses of drugs, 
including hydrochlorothiazides and some cytotoxic 
agents.
wall deformity (e.g. thoracic kyphosis) and deconditioning 
may all exacerbate dyspnoea associated with interstitial lung 
disease.
• Surgical lung biopsy: often inappropriate in the very frail. A 
Rare interstitial lung diseases
diagnosis therefore frequently depends on clinical and HRCT 
findings alone.
714
See Box 19.88.
Occupational and environmental lung disease
19.88 Rare interstitial lung diseases
Disease
Presentation
Chest X-ray
Course
Idiopathic pulmonary 
haemosiderosis
Haemoptysis, breathlessness, 
anaemia
Bilateral infiltrates, often 
perihilar
Diffuse pulmonary fibrosis
Rapidly progressive in children
Slow progression or remission in 
adults
Death from massive pulmonary 
haemorrhage or cor pulmonale and 
respiratory failure
Alveolar proteinosis
Breathlessness and cough
Occasionally fever, chest 
pain and haemoptysis
Diffuse bilateral shadowing, 
often more pronounced in 
the hilar regions
Air bronchogram
Spontaneous remission in one-third
Whole-lung lavage or granulocyte 
macrophage–colony stimulating 
factor (GM–CSF) therapy may be 
effective
Langerhans cell histiocytosis 
(histiocytosis X)
Breathlessness, cough, 
pneumothorax
Diffuse interstitial shadowing 
progressing to honeycombing
Course unpredictable but may 
progress to respiratory failure
Smoking cessation may be followed 
by significant improvement
Poor response to 
immunosuppressive treatment
19
Bilateral reticulonodular 
shadowing of diffuse 
interstitial fibrosis
Neurofibromatosis
Breathlessness and cough in 
a patient with multiple organ 
involvement with 
neurofibromas including skin
Slow progression to death from 
respiratory failure
Poor response to corticosteroid 
therapy
Alveolar microlithiasis
May be asymptomatic
Breathlessness and cough
Slowly progressive to cor pulmonale 
and respiratory failure
May stabilise in some
Diffuse calcified 
micronodular shadowing 
more pronounced in the 
lower zones
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
Haemoptysis, breathlessness, 
pneumothorax and chylous 
effusion in females
Diffuse bilateral shadowing
CT shows characteristic 
thin-walled cysts with 
well-defined walls 
throughout both lungs
Progressive to death within 10 yrs
Oestrogen ablation and 
progesterone therapy of doubtful 
value
Consider lung transplantation
Pulmonary tuberous sclerosis
Very similar to lymphangioleiomyomatosis, except occasionally occurs in men
19.89 Occupational asthma
OCCUPATIONAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
LUNG DISEASE
• Animals
• Aldehydes
• Wood dust
Most frequently reported causative agents
• Isocyanates
• Flour and grain dust
• Colophony and fluxes
• Latex
Workers most commonly reported to occupational  
asthma schemes
• Paint sprayers
• Bakers and pastry-makers
• Nurses
• Chemical workers
The role of occupation and environmental exposure in 
lung disease is a particularly important area of respira-
tory medicine. Occupational lung disease is common 
and, in addition to the challenges of its diagnosis and 
management, often involves discussions about the 
workplace and, in some circumstances, lawyers. Many 
countries encourage the registration of cases of occupa-
tional lung disease.
Occupational airway disease
classically preceded by a latent period. Symptoms of 
rhinoconjunctivitis often precede the development of 
asthma. When OA follows exposure to high molecular 
weight proteins, sensitisation to the agent may be dem-
onstrated by skin testing or measurement of specific IgE. 
Confirmation of OA should be sought from lung func-
tion tests, which usually involves serial recording of 
peak flow at work, at least 4 times per day for at least  
3 weeks and, if possible, including a period away from 
work (Fig. 19.62). In certain circumstances, specific chal-
lenge tests are required to confirm the diagnosis.
It may be possible to remove the worker from  
715
Occupational asthma
Occupational asthma (OA) should be considered in any 
individual of working age who develops new-onset 
asthma, particularly if the patient reports an improve-
ment in asthma symptoms during periods away from 
work, e.g. at weekends and on holiday. Workers in 
certain occupations appear to be at particularly high risk 
(Box 19.89) and the condition is more common in 
smokers and atopic individuals. Depending on the 
intensity of exposure, asthmatic symptoms usually 
develop within the first year of employment but are 
the implicated agent but when this is not feasible, 
RespiRatoRy disease
50%
19
Diurnal
0%
20%
600
550
500
variation
of PEF
Peak flow (L/min)
450
400
m
t
w
t
f
s
s
m
t
w
t
f
s
s
m
t
w
t
f
s
s
m
t
w
t
f
s
s
m
t
w
t
f
s
s
Weekdays
Fig. 19.62 Peak flow readings in occupational asthma. Subjects with suspected occupational asthma are asked to perform 2-hourly serial peak 
flows at, and away from, work. The maximum, mean and minimum values are plotted daily. Days at work are indicated by the shaded areas. The diurnal 
variation is displayed at the top. In this example, a period away from work is followed by a marked improvement in peak flow readings and a reduction in 
diurnal variation. 
consideration of personal protective equipment and 
workplace hygiene may allow patients to retain their job 
and income. Specialist follow-up in such situations is 
highly advisable. A favourable prognosis is indicated by 
a short history of symptoms and normal lung function 
at diagnosis. Where reduction or avoidance of exposure 
fails to bring about resolution, the general management 
does not differ from that of other forms of asthma.
breathlessness, accompanied by a drop in lung function; 
classically, these are most severe on the first day of the 
working week (‘Monday fever’), or on return to work 
following a period away. As the week progresses, symp-
toms improve and the fall in lung function becomes less 
dramatic. Continued exposure leads to the development 
of persistent symptoms and a progressive decline in 
FEV1 similar to that observed in COPD.
Pneumoconiosis
Reactive airways dysfunction 
syndrome
Reactive airways dysfunction syndrome or acute irritant-
induced asthma refers to the development of a persistent 
asthma-like syndrome following the inhalation of an 
airway irritant: typically, a single specific exposure to a 
gas, smoke, fume or vapour in very high concentrations. 
Pulmonary function tests show airflow obstruction and 
airway hyper-reactivity, and the management is similar 
to that of asthma. Once developed, the condition often 
persists but it is common for symptoms to improve over 
years.
Pneumoconiosis can be defined as a permanent altera-
tion of lung structure due to the inhalation of mineral 
dust and the tissue reactions of the lung to its presence, 
excluding bronchitis and emphysema (Box 19.90). Not 
all dusts are pathogenic. For example, silica is highly 
fibrogenic, whereas iron (siderosis), tin (stannosis) and 
barium (baritosis) are almost inert. Beryllium causes an 
interstitial granulomatous disease similar to sarcoidosis. 
In many types of pneumoconiosis, a long period of dust 
exposure is required before radiological changes appear, 
and these may precede clinical symptoms. The most 
important pneumoconioses include coal worker’s pneu-
moconiosis, silicosis and asbestosis.
Chronic obstructive  
pulmonary disease
Whilst tobacco smoking remains the most important 
preventable cause of COPD, there is increasing recogni-
tion that other noxious particles and gases can both 
cause or aggravate the condition. Occupational COPD is 
recognised in workers exposed to coal dust, crystalline 
silica and cadmium. In many parts of the developing 
world, indoor air pollution from the burning of biomass 
fuels in confined spaces used for cooking contributes to 
the development of COPD.
716
Coal worker’s pneumoconiosis
Coal worker’s pneumoconiosis (CWP) follows pro-
longed inhalation of coal dust. Dust-laden alveolar 
macro phages aggregate to form macules in or near the 
centre of the secondary pulmonary lobule and a fibrotic 
reaction ensues, resulting in the appearance of scattered 
discrete fibrotic lesions. Classification is based on the 
size and extent of radiographic nodularity. Simple coal 
worker’s pneumoconiosis (SCWP) refers to the appear-
ance of small radiographic nodules in an otherwise 
asymptomatic individual. SCWP does not impair  
lung function and, once exposure ceases, will seldom 
progress. Progressive massive fibrosis (PMF) refers to 
the formation of conglomerate masses (mainly in the 
upper lobes), which may cavitate. The development of 
Byssinosis
Byssinosis occurs in workers at cotton and flax mills 
who are exposed to cotton brack (dried leaf and plant 
debris). An acute form of the disease may occur but, 
more typically, byssinosis develops after 20–30 years’ 
exposure. Typical symptoms include chest tightness or 
Occupational and environmental lung disease
19.90 Lung diseases caused by exposure to inorganic dusts
Cause
Occupation
Description
Characteristic pathological features
}
Coal dust
Coal mining
Coal worker’s 
pneumoconiosis
Focal and interstitial ﬁbrosis, centrilobular 
emphysema, progressive massive ﬁbrosis
Silica
Mining, quarrying, stone dressing, metal grinding, 
pottery, boiler scaling
Silicosis
Asbestos
Demolition, ship breaking, manufacture of ﬁreproof 
insulating materials, pipe and boiler lagging
Asbestos-related 
disease
Pleural plaques, diffuse pleural thickening, acute 
benign pleurisy, carcinoma of lung, interstitial 
ﬁbrosis, mesothelioma
Iron oxide
Arc welding
Siderosis
Mineral deposition only
Tin oxide
Tin mining
Stannosis
Tin-laden macrophages
Beryllium
Aircraft, atomic energy and electronics industries
Berylliosis
Granulomas, interstitial ﬁbrosis
silicoproteinosis, similar to alveolar proteinosis (see  
Box 19.88, p. 715).
Radiological features are similar to those of  
19
PMF is usually associated with cough, sputum that may 
be black (melanoptysis), and breathlessness. The chest 
X-ray appearances may be confused with lung cancer, 
tuberculosis and granulomatosis with polyangiitis. PMF 
may progress even after coal dust exposure ceases, and 
in extreme cases leads to respiratory failure and right 
ventricular failure.
Caplan’s syndrome describes the coexistence of rheu-
matoid arthritis and rounded fibrotic nodules 0.5–5 cm 
in diameter. They show pathological features similar to 
a rheumatoid nodule, including central necrosis, pali-
sading histiocytes, and a peripheral rim of lymphocytes 
and plasma cells. This syndrome may also occur in other 
types of pneumoconiosis.
coal worker’s pneumoconiosis, with multiple well-
circumscribed 3–5-mm nodular opacities, predomi-
nantly in the mid- and upper zones. As the disease 
progresses, PMF may develop (Fig. 19.63). Enlargement 
of the hilar glands with an ‘egg-shell’ pattern of calcifica-
tion is said to be characteristic but is uncommon and 
non-specific. Silica is highly fibrogenic and the disease 
is usually progressive, even when exposure ceases; 
hence the affected worker should always be removed 
from further exposure. Individuals with silicosis are at 
increased risk of tuberculosis (silicotuberculosis), lung 
cancer and COPD. Associations with renal and connec-
tive tissue disease have also been described.
Silicosis
Silicosis results from the inhalation of crystalline silica, 
usually in the form of quartz, by workers cutting,  
grinding and polishing stone. Classic silicosis is most 
common and usually manifests after 10–20 years of  
continuous silica exposure, during which time the 
patient remains asymptomatic. Accelerated silicosis is 
associated with a much shorter duration of dust expo-
sure (typically 5–10 years), and may present as early as 
1 year of exposure; as the name suggests, it follows a 
more aggressive course. Intense exposure to very fine 
crystalline silica dust can cause a more acute disease – 
Berylliosis
Exposure to beryllium is encountered in aircraft engi-
neering and dentistry. The presence of cough, progres-
sive breathlessness, night sweats and arthralgia in a 
worker exposed to dusts, fumes or vapours containing 
beryllium should raise suspicions of berylliosis. The 
radiographic appearances are similar in type and distri-
bution to sarcoid, and biopsy shows sarcoid-like granu-
lomas. The diagnosis may be confirmed by specialised 
tests of lymphocyte function.
A
B
717
Fig. 19.63 Silicosis.  A A chest X-ray from a patient with silicosis, showing the presence of small rounded nodules predominantly seen in the upper 
zones.  B HRCT from the same patient, demonstrating conglomeration of nodules with posterior bias. 
RespiRatoRy disease
19
Acute benign asbestos pleurisy
Benign asbestos pleurisy is estimated to occur in around 
one-fifth of asbestos workers but many episodes are  
subclinical and pass unreported. When symptomatic, 
patients present with features of pleurisy, including 
mild fever and systemic disturbance. The diagnosis 
necessitates the exclusion of other known causes of pleu-
risy and pleural effusion. Repeated episodes may be 
followed by the development of diffuse (visceral) pleural 
thickening.
Less common pneumoconioses
Siderosis refers to the development of a benign iron 
oxide pneumoconiosis in welders and other iron foundry 
workers. Baritosis may be seen in barium process 
workers, and stannosis in tin refining; haematite lung 
occurs in iron ore miners and resembles silicosis but 
stains the lung red. Diamond polishers may develop 
hard metal disease; this condition is similar to UIP but 
the pathology shows a giant cell interstitial pneumonia. 
Popcorn worker’s lung is a form of obliterative bronchio-
litis following ingestion of diacetyl used in butter 
flavouring.
Asbestos-related lung and  
pleural diseases
Diffuse pleural thickening
Diffuse pleural thickening (DPT) affects the visceral 
pleura and, if sufficiently extensive, may cause restric-
tive lung function impairment, exertional breathlessness 
and, occasionally, persistent chest pain. The typical 
appearances of DPT on chest X-ray include thickening 
of the pleura along the chest wall and obliteration of  
the costophrenic angles. Earlier manifestations of  
DPT, including parenchymal bands, may be detected  
by CT (Fig. 19.65). Occasionally, shrinkage of the  
visceral pleura results in the development of ‘round  
atelectasis’. There is no treatment and the condition  
may progress in around one-third of individuals. In 
exceptionally severe cases, surgical decortication may  
be considered. A pleural biopsy may be required to 
exclude mesothelioma.
Asbestos is a naturally occurring silicate. Its fibres may 
be classified as either chrysotile (white asbestos), which 
accounts for 90% of the world’s production, or serpen-
tine (crocidolite or blue asbestos, and amosite or brown 
asbestos). Its favourable thermal and chemical insula-
tion properties led to its extensive use by the shipbuild-
ing and construction industries throughout the latter 
part of the twentieth century. Exposure to asbestos may 
be followed by the development of both pleural and 
pulmonary disease, after a lengthy latent period.
Pleural plaques
Pleural plaques are the most common manifestation of 
past asbestos exposure, and are discrete circumscribed 
areas of hyaline fibrosis that may occur on the parietal 
pleura of the chest wall, diaphragm, pericardium or 
mediastinum. They are virtually always asymptomatic 
and are usually identified as an incidental finding on a 
chest X-ray (Fig. 19.64) or thoracic CT scan, particularly 
when partially calcified. They do not cause any impair-
ment of lung function and are benign.
Fig. 19.65 Thoracic CT scan showing right-sided pleural 
thickening and an associated parenchymal band. 
Fig. 19.64 Asbestos-related benign pleural plaques. Chest X-ray 
showing extensive calcified pleural plaques (‘candle wax’ appearance 
– arrows), particularly marked on the diaphragm and lateral pleural 
surfaces. 
718
Asbestosis
Asbestosis is a diffuse parenchymal lung disease. Its 
development generally requires substantial exposure 
over several years, and is rare with low-level or bystander 
exposure. In common with other fibrosing lung diseases, 
asbestosis usually presents with exertional breathless-
ness and fine, late inspiratory crackles over the lower 
zones. Finger clubbing may be present. Pulmonary func-
tion tests and HRCT appearances are similar to those of 
UIP. These features, accompanied by a history of sub-
stantial asbestos exposure, are generally sufficient to 
establish the diagnosis; lung biopsy is rarely necessary. 
When biopsy is performed, the diagnosis is made when 
alveolar septal fibrosis is accompanied by an average of 
at least two asbestos bodies per square cm of lung tissue. 
In cases where there is doubt, asbestos fibre counts may 
Occupational and environmental lung disease
19.91 Examples of lung diseases caused by 
organic dusts
Disorder
Source
Antigen/agent
Micropolyspora faeni 
Aspergillus fumigatus
Farmer’s lung*
Mouldy hay, 
straw, grain
Avian serum proteins
Bird fancier’s 
lung*
be performed on lung biopsy material to establish the 
diagnosis.
Asbestosis is usually slowly progressive but tends to 
be more indolent and associated with a better prognosis 
than UIP; in advanced cases, however, respiratory 
failure and cor pulmonale may still develop. About 40% 
of patients (who usually smoke) develop carcinoma of 
the lung and 10% may develop mesothelioma.
Avian excreta, 
proteins and 
feathers
Mouldy maltings
Aspergillus clavatus
Malt worker’s 
lung*
Mouldy cheese
Aspergillus clavatus 
Penicillium casei
Cheese worker’s 
lung*
Maple bark 
stripper’s lung*
Bark from stored 
maple
Cryptostroma 
corticale
Saxophone 
player’s lung*
Reed of any 
wind instrument
Fusarium spp.
Penicillium spp.
Cladosporium spp.
Mesothelioma
Mesothelioma is a malignant tumour affecting the pleura 
or, less commonly, the peritoneum. Its occurrence almost 
invariably suggests past asbestos exposure, which may 
be low-level. There is typically a long latent interval 
between first exposure and the onset of clinical manifes-
tations, such that, even though asbestos control  
measures have now been implemented, deaths from 
mesothelioma continue to increase.
Pleural mesothelioma typically presents with increas-
Byssinosis
Textile industries
Cotton, flax, hemp 
dust
Contamination of 
air conditioning
Thermophilic 
actinomycetes
19
Inhalation 
(‘humidifier’) 
fever
*Presents as hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
ing breathlessness resulting from pleural effusion, or 
unremitting chest pain when there is involvement of the 
chest wall. As the tumour progresses, it encases the 
underlying lung and may invade into the parenchyma, 
the mediastinum and the pericardium. Metastatic 
disease, although often not clinically detectable in life, is 
a common finding on post-mortem.
Mesothelioma is almost invariably fatal. Highly 
selected patients may be considered for radical surgery 
but, in the majority, therapy is invariably directed 
towards palliation of symptoms. The use of chemother-
apy may improve quality of life and is accompanied by 
a small survival benefit of around 3 months. Radiother-
apy can be used to control pain and limit the risk of 
tumour seeding at biopsy sites. Pleural effusions are 
managed with drainage and pleurodesis. Typical figures 
for survival from onset of symptoms are around  
16 months for epithelioid tumours, 10 months for sarco-
matoid tumours and 15 months for biphasic tumours, 
with only a minority of patients surviving longer periods.
characterised by the influx of mononuclear cells and 
foamy histiocytes. The presence of poorly formed non-
caseating granulomas in the alveolar walls suggests that 
type IV responses are also important. The distribution 
of the inflammatory infiltrate is predominantly peri-
bronchiolar, which helps to distinguish the appearances 
from non-specific interstitial pneumonia and lym-
phocytic interstitial pneumonia. Chronic forms may be 
accompanied by fibrosis. For reasons that remain uncer-
tain, there is a lower incidence of hypersensitivity pneu-
monitis in smokers than non-smokers.
Lung diseases due to organic dusts
A wide range of organic agents may cause respiratory 
disorders (Box 19.91). Disease results from a local 
immune response to animal proteins, or fungal antigens 
in mouldy vegetable matter. Hypersensitivity pneumo-
nitis is the most common of these conditions.
Clinical features
The presentation of HP varies from an acute form to a 
more indolent pattern, depending on the antigen load. 
For example, the farmer exposed to mouldy hay after it 
was gathered and stored damp during a wet summer, 
or the pigeon fancier cleaning a large pigeon loft, will 
report influenza-like symptoms within a few hours, 
accompanied by cough, breathlessness and wheeze. On 
the other hand, the individual with low-level antigen 
exposure, such as to an indoor pet bird, will typically 
present in a more indolent fashion with slowly progres-
sive breathlessness, and, in some cases, established 
fibrosis may be present by the time the disease is recog-
nised. Chest auscultation typically reveals widespread 
end-inspiratory crackles and squeaks.
719
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP; also called extrinsic 
allergic alveolitis) results from the inhalation of a wide 
variety of organic antigens, which give rise to a diffuse 
immune complex reaction in the alveoli and bronchioles. 
Common causes include farmer’s lung and bird fancier’s 
lung. Other examples are shown in Box 19.91. HP is not 
exclusively occupational or environmental, and other 
important causes include medications (see Box 19.86).
The pathology of hypersensitivity pneumonitis is 
consistent with both type III and type IV immunological 
mechanisms (p. 87). Precipitating IgG antibodies may be 
detected in the serum and a type III Arthus reaction is 
believed to occur in the lung, where the precipitation of 
immune complexes results in activation of complement 
and an inflammatory response in the alveolar walls, 
Investigations
In cases of acute HP, the chest X-ray typically shows 
ill-defined patchy airspace shadowing which, given  
the systemic features, may be confused with pneumonia. 
HRCT is more likely to show bilateral ground glass 
shadowing and areas of consolidation superimposed  
on small centrilobar nodular opacities with an upper 
and middle lobe predominance (Fig. 19.66). In more 
RespiRatoRy disease
A
19
19.92 Predictive factors in the identification of 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis
• Exposure to a known offending antigen
• Positive precipitating antibodies to offending antigen
• Recurrent episodes of symptoms
• Inspiratory crackles on examination
• Symptoms occurring 4–8 hrs after exposure
• Weight loss
B
the number of CD8+ T lymphocytes, and transbronchial 
biopsy can occasionally provide sufficient tissue for a 
confident diagnosis; however, open lung biopsy may be 
necessary (Fig. 19.66B).
Management
If practical, the patient should cease exposure to the 
inciting agent. In some cases, however, this may be  
difficult, either because of implications for livelihood 
(e.g. farmers) or enthusiasm for hobbies (e.g. pigeon 
breeders). Dust masks with appropriate filters may  
minimise exposure and be combined with methods of 
reducing levels of antigen (e.g. drying hay before 
storage). In acute cases, prednisolone should be given 
for 3–4 weeks, starting with an oral dose of 40 mg per 
day. Severely hypoxaemic patients may require high-
concentration oxygen therapy initially. Most patients 
recover completely but, if unchecked, fibrosis may 
progress to cause severe respiratory disability, hypoxae-
mia, pulmonary hypertension, cor pulmonale and even-
tually death.
Fig. 19.66 Hypersensitivity pneumonitis.  A HRCT showing typical 
patchy ground glass opacification.  B Histology shows evidence of an 
interstitial inflammatory infiltrate in the lung, expanding alveolar walls, with 
a peribronchial distribution. Within the infiltrate, there are foci of small, 
poorly defined non-caseating granulomas (insert), which often lie adjacent 
to the airways. In this case, there is little in the way of established lung 
fibrosis, but this can be marked. 
chronic disease, features of fibrosis, such as volume  
loss, linear opacities and architectural distortion, appear. 
In common with other fibrotic diseases, pulmonary 
function tests show a restrictive ventilatory defect  
with reduced lung volumes and impaired gas transfer, 
and dynamic tests may detect oxygen desaturation. In 
more advanced disease, type I respiratory failure is 
present at rest.
Inhalation (‘humidifier’) fever
Inhalation fever shares similarities with HP. It occurs as 
a result of contaminated humidifiers or air-conditioning 
units that release a fine spray of microorganisms into the 
atmosphere. The illness is characterised by self-limiting 
fever and breathlessness; permanent sequelae are 
unusual. An identical syndrome can also develop after 
disturbing an accumulation of mouldy hay, compost or 
mulch. So-called ‘hot tub lung’ appears to be attributable 
to Mycobacterium avium. Outbreaks of HP in workers 
using metalworking fluids appear to be linked to Aci-
netobacter or Ochrobactrum.
Occupational lung cancer
Individuals exposed to substantial quantities of asbestos 
are at increased risk of lung cancer particularly if they 
smoke tobacco. Increased risks of lung cancer have also 
been reported in workers who develop silicosis and 
those exposed to radon gas, beryllium, diesel exhaust 
fumes, cadmium, chromium, and dust and fumes from 
coke plants.
Occupational pneumonia
720
Diagnosis
The diagnosis of HP is usually based on the characteris-
tic clinical and radiological features, together with the 
identification of a potential source of antigen in the 
patient’s home or place of work (Box 19.92). It may be 
supported by a positive serum precipitin test or by more 
sensitive serological tests. However, the presence of pre-
cipitins without the other features does not signify a 
diagnosis; the great majority of farmers with positive 
precipitins do not have farmer’s lung, and up to 15% of 
pigeon breeders may have positive serum precipitins yet 
remain healthy.
Where HP is suspected but the cause is not readily 
apparent, a visit to the patient’s home or workplace 
should be made. Occasionally, if an agent previously 
unrecognised as causing HP is suspected, provocation 
testing may be necessary to prove the diagnosis; if posi-
tive, inhalation of the relevant antigen is followed after 
3–6 hours by pyrexia and a reduction in VC and gas 
transfer factor. BAL fluid usually shows an increase in 
Occupational and environmental exposures may be 
closely linked to the development of pneumonia. 
Welders appear to be at increased risk of pneumonia 
and pneumococcal vaccine is currently recommended 
for those in the trade. Farm, abattoir and hide factory 
workers may be exposed to Coxiella burnetii, the 
Pulmonary vascular disease
• Is the clinical presentation consistent with PE?
• Does the patient have risk factors for PE?
• Are there any alternative diagnoses that can explain 
the patient’s presentation?
Clinical presentation varies, depending on number, 
size and distribution of emboli and on underlying car-
diorespiratory reserve (Box 19.93). A recognised risk 
factor is present in 80–90% (Box 19.94). The presence of 
one or more risk factors increases the risk further still.
19.94 Risk factors for venous thromboembolism
causative agent of Q fever. The organisms are excreted 
from milk, urine, faeces and amniotic fluid, or may be 
transmitted by cattle ticks or contaminated dust from the 
milking floor, or by drinking milk that is inadequately 
pasteurised. Birds (often parrots or budgerigars) infected 
with Chlamydia psittaci can cause psittacosis in humans. 
Sewage workers, farmers, animal handlers and veteri-
narians run an increased risk of contracting leptospiral 
pneumonia. Contact with rabbits, hares, muskrats  
and ground squirrels is associated with tularaemic 
pneumonia, caused by Francisella tularensis (p. 340). 
Anthrax (wool-sorter’s disease, p. 346) may occur in 
workers exposed to infected hides, hair, bristle, bone-
meal and animal carcases.
Surgery
• Major abdominal/pelvic 
• Post-operative intensive 
surgery
care
PULMONARY VASCULAR DISEASE
• Hip/knee surgery
Venous thromboembolism
Obstetrics
• Pregnancy/puerperium
• Other disabling disease
19
Cardiorespiratory disease
• COPD
• Congestive cardiac failure
• Stroke/spinal cord injury
Lower limb problems
• Fracture
• Varicose veins
• Concurrent chemotherapy
Malignant disease
• Abdominal/pelvic
• Advanced/metastatic
Deep venous thrombosis (DVT, p. 1008) and pulmonary 
embolism (PE) are included under this heading. The 
majority (80%) of pulmonary emboli arise from the 
propagation of lower limb DVT. Rare causes include 
septic emboli (from endocarditis affecting the tricuspid 
or pulmonary valves), tumour (especially choriocarci-
noma), fat, air, amniotic fluid and placenta.
The incidence of VTE in the community is unknown; 
it occurs in approximately 1% of all patients admitted to 
hospital and accounts for around 5% of in-hospital 
deaths. It is a common mode of death in patients with 
cancer, stroke and pregnancy.
• Thrombotic disorders  
(p. 1054)
Miscellaneous
• Increasing age
• Previous proven VTE
• Immobility
• Trauma
Clinical features
VTE may be difficult to diagnose. It is helpful to 
consider:
19.93 Features of pulmonary thromboemboli
Acute massive PE
Acute small/medium PE
Chronic PE
Occlusion of segmental pulmonary 
artery → infarction ± effusion
Pathophysiology
Major haemodynamic effects: 
↓cardiac output; acute right heart 
failure
Chronic occlusion of pulmonary 
microvasculature, right heart 
failure
Pleuritic chest pain, restricted 
breathing, haemoptysis
Symptoms
Faintness or collapse, crushing 
central chest pain, apprehension, 
severe dyspnoea
Exertional dyspnoea. Late 
symptoms of pulmonary 
hypertension or right heart 
failure
Tachycardia, pleural rub, raised 
hemidiaphragm, crackles, effusion 
(often blood-stained), low-grade 
fever
May be minimal early in disease. 
Later: RV heave, loud P2. 
Terminal: signs of right heart 
failure
Signs
Major circulatory collapse: 
tachycardia, hypotension, ↑JVP, 
RV gallop rhythm, loud P2, severe 
cyanosis, ↓urinary output
Chest X-ray
Usually normal. May be subtle 
oligaemia
Pleuropulmonary opacities, pleural 
effusion, linear shadows, raised 
hemidiaphragm
Enlarged pulmonary artery trunk, 
enlarged heart, prominent right 
ventricle
Sinus tachycardia
RV hypertrophy and strain
ECG
S1Q3T3 anterior T-wave inversion, 
RBBB
Exertional ↓PaO2 or desaturation 
on formal exercise testing
Arterial blood gases
Markedly abnormal with ↓PaO2 
and ↓PaCO2. Metabolic acidosis
May be normal or ↓PaO2 or 
↓PaCO2
Alternative diagnoses
Myocardial infarction, pericardial 
tamponade, aortic dissection
Pneumonia, pneumothorax, 
musculoskeletal chest pain
Other causes of pulmonary 
hypertension
(JVP = jugular venous pressure; PE = pulmonary embolism; RBBB = right bundle branch block; RV = right ventricular)
721
RespiRatoRy disease
Pulmonary opacities
19
(any size or shape,
rarely lobar or segmental,
can cavitate)
Wedge-shaped opacity
Oligaemia of lung field
Enlarged pulmonary
artery
Horizontal linear opacities
(bilateral and usually in
lower zones)
Elevated
hemidiaphragm
Pleural effusion
(usually blood-stained
 on aspiration)
Fig. 19.67 Features of pulmonary thromboembolism/infarction on chest X-ray. 
Venous thromboembolism
suspected
Assess clinical risk
Measure D-dimer levels
D-dimer +ve
D-dimer –ve
Risk high
D-dimer –ve
Risk low
Risk low
Risk high
Treat
. .
Not DVT/PE
Confirm
diagnosis
 • Ultrasound leg
    veins ±
  • CT pulmonary
angiogram or
 • V/Q scan
    (no previous
    cardiopulmonary
    disease)
Fig. 19.68 Algorithm for the investigation of patients with 
suspected pulmonary thromboembolism. Clinical risk is based on the 
presence of risk factors for venous thromboembolism and the probability of 
another diagnosis. 
nephrotoxic, care should be taken in patients with renal 
impairment, and CTPA avoided in those with a history 
of allergy to iodinated contrast media.
Ventilation–perfusion scanning is seldom used now-
722
adays, although a limited role remains in those without 
significant cardiopulmonary disease. Colour Doppler 
ultrasound of the leg veins remains the investigation of 
choice in patients with suspected DVT, but may also be 
used in patients with suspected PE, particularly if there 
are clinical signs in a limb, as many will have identifiable 
proximal thrombus in the leg veins.
Investigations
A variety of non-specific radiographic appearances have 
been described (Fig. 19.67) but the chest X-ray is most 
useful in excluding key differential diagnoses, e.g. pneu-
monia or pneumothorax. Normal appearances in an 
acutely breathless and hypoxaemic patient should raise 
the suspicion of PE, as should bilateral changes in a 
patient presenting with unilateral pleuritic chest pain.
The ECG is often normal but is useful in excluding 
other important differential diagnoses, such as acute 
myocardial infarction and pericarditis. The most 
common findings in PE include sinus tachycardia and 
anterior T-wave inversion but these are non-specific; 
larger emboli may cause right heart strain revealed by 
an S1Q3T3 pattern, ST-segment and T-wave changes, or 
the appearance of right bundle branch block.
Arterial blood gases typically show a reduced PaO2 
and a normal or low PaCO2, and an increased alveolar–
arterial oxygen gradient, but may be normal in a signifi-
cant minority. A metabolic acidosis may be seen in acute 
massive PE with cardiovascular collapse.
D-dimer is a specific degradation product released 
into the circulation when cross-linked fibrin undergoes 
endogenous fibrinolysis (p. 1000). An elevated D-dimer 
is of limited value, as it may be raised in a variety of 
conditions including PE, myocardial infarction, pneu-
monia and sepsis. However, low levels (< 500 ng/mL, 
measured by ELISA), particularly where clinical risk is 
low, have a high negative predictive value and further 
investigation is usually unnecessary (Fig. 19.68). The 
D-dimer result should be disregarded in high-risk 
patients, as further investigation is mandatory even if it 
is normal. Other circulating markers that reflect right 
ventricular micro-infarction, such as troponin I and 
brain natriuretic peptide, are under investigation.
CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA, Fig. 19.69) is the 
first-line diagnostic test. It has the advantages of visual-
ising the distribution and extent of the emboli, or high-
lighting an alternative diagnosis, such as consolidation, 
pneumothorax or aortic dissection. The sensitivity of CT 
scanning may be increased by simultaneous visualisa-
tion of the femoral and popliteal veins, although this is 
not widely practised. As the contrast media may be 
Pulmonary vascular disease
19.95 VTE and pregnancy
• Maternal mortality: VTE is the leading cause.
• CTPA: may be performed safely with fetal shielding 
(0.01–0.06 mGy). It is important to consider the risk of 
radiation to breast tissue (particularly if there is a family 
history of breast carcinoma) and the risk of iodinated 
contrast media to mother and fetus (neonatal 
• �hypothyroidism).
�
V / Q scanning: greater radiation dose to fetus (0.11–
0.22 mGy) but less to maternal breast tissue.
• In utero radiation exposure: estimated incidence of 
childhood malignancy is about 1 in 16 000 per mGy.
• Warfarin: teratogenic, so VTE should be treated with LMWH 
during pregnancy.
Fig. 19.69 CT pulmonary angiogram. The arrow points to a saddle 
embolism in the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. 
19
Bedside echocardiography is extremely helpful in the 
differential diagnosis and assessment of acute circula-
tory collapse (p. 544). Acute dilatation of the right heart 
is usually present in massive PE, and thrombus (embo-
lism in transit) may be visible. Alternative diagnoses, 
including left ventricular failure, aortic dissection and 
pericardial tamponade, can also be identified.
Conventional pulmonary angiography has been 
largely superseded by CTPA but is still useful in selected 
settings or to deliver catheter-based therapies.
Management
General measures
Prompt recognition and treatment are potentially life-
saving. Sufficient oxygen should be given to hypox-
aemic patients to maintain arterial oxygen saturation 
above 90%. Circulatory shock should be treated with 
intravenous fluids or plasma expander, but inotropic 
agents are of limited value as the hypoxic dilated right 
ventricle is already close to maximally stimulated by 
endogenous catecholamines. Diuretics and vasodilators 
should also be avoided, as they will reduce cardiac 
output. Opiates may be necessary to relieve pain and 
distress but should be used with caution in the hypoten-
sive patient. External cardiac massage may be successful 
in the moribund patient by dislodging and breaking up 
a large central embolus.
most commonly used oral anticoagulant. Therapy is ini-
tiated with a high loading dose, followed by a mainte-
nance dose based on the international normalised ratio 
(INR). LMWH should not be discontinued until the INR 
is 2 or more for at least 24 hours. Due to the narrow 
therapeutic index of warfarin and its propensity to inter-
act with other drugs and food, regular measurement  
of the INR is required throughout the duration of  
anticoagulation. Newer thrombin or activated factor X 
inhibitors offer more predictable dosing and have  
no requirement for coagulation monitoring; they may 
ultimately replace warfarin.
Decisions regarding the duration of anticoagulation 
represent a balance between the risk and consequences 
of recurrence, and the risks of prolonged anticoagula-
tion. In patients with an identifiable and reversible risk 
factor, anticoagulation may be safely discontinued fol-
lowing 3 months of therapy. Those with persistent pro-
thrombotic risks or a history of previous emboli should 
be anticoagulated for life. In patients with cancer-
associated VTE, LMWH should be continued for at  
least 6 months before switching to warfarin. For patients 
with unprovoked VTE, the appropriate duration of  
anticoagulation should be at least 3 months, but pro-
longed therapy should be considered in males (who 
have a higher risk of recurrent VTE than females), those 
in whom the D-dimer remains elevated when measured 
1 month after stopping anticoagulation, those with post-
thrombotic syndrome, and those in whom recurrent  
PE may be fatal. The disadvantages of prolonged anti-
coagulation range from the inconvenience of long-term 
INR monitoring to the more serious risk of major  
haemorrhage (around 3% per year). Life-threatening 
haemorrhage occurs in around 1% of cases per year and 
fatal bleeding in 0.25% cases per year.
723
Anticoagulation
Anticoagulation should be commenced immediately in 
patients with a high or intermediate probability of PE, 
but may be safely withheld in those with low clinical 
probability, pending investigation. Heparin reduces 
further propagation of clot and the risk of further emboli, 
and lowers mortality. It is most easily administered as 
subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). 
The dose is based on the patient’s weight and there is 
usually no requirement to monitor tests of coagulation 
(p. 1018). Treatment with LMWH should continue for at 
least 5 days, during which time an oral anticoagulant is 
commenced. Fondaparinux, a synthetic pentasaccharide 
closely related to heparin, represents an alternative to 
LMWH. Warfarin – a vitamin K antagonist – remains the 
Thrombolytic and surgical therapy
Thrombolysis is indicated in any patient presenting with 
acute massive PE accompanied by cardiogenic shock. In 
the absence of shock, the benefits are less clear but 
thrombolysis may be considered in those presenting 
with right ventricular dilatation and hypokinesis  
or severe hypoxaemia. Patients must be screened care-
fully for haemorrhagic risk, as there is a high risk of 
intra cranial haemorrhage. Surgical pulmonary embolec-
tomy may be considered in selected patients but carries 
a high mortality.
RespiRatoRy disease
19.96 Thromboembolic disease in old age
19.97 Classification of pulmonary hypertension
19
• Risk: rises by a factor of 2.5 over the age of 60 yrs.
• Prophylaxis for VTE: should be considered in all older 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension
• Primary pulmonary hypertension: sporadic and familial
• Secondary to: connective tissue disease (limited cutaneous 
patients who are immobile as a result of acute illness, except 
when this is due to acute stroke.
• Association with cancer: the prevalence of cancer among 
systemic sclerosis), congenital systemic to pulmonary shunts, 
portal hypertension, HIV infection, exposure to various drugs 
or toxins, and persistent pulmonary hypertension of the 
newborn
those with DVT increases with age but the relative risk of 
malignancy with DVT falls; therefore extensive investigation 
is not justified if initial assessment reveals no evidence of an 
underlying neoplasm.
• Warfarin: older patients are more sensitive to the 
Pulmonary venous hypertension
• Left-sided atrial or ventricular heart disease
• Left-sided valvular heart disease
• Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease
• Pulmonary capillary haemangiomatosis
anticoagulant effects of warfarin, partly due to the concurrent 
use of other drugs and the presence of other pathology. 
Life-threatening or fatal bleeds on warfarin are significantly 
more common in those aged over 80 yrs.
• Chronic immobility: long-term anticoagulant therapy is not 
• Chronic exposure to high 
required as there is no associated increase in 
thromboembolism.
Pulmonary hypertension associated with disorders of  
the respiratory system and/or hypoxaemia
• COPD
• Diffuse parenchymal lung 
altitude
disease
• Sleep-disordered breathing
• Alveolar hypoventilation 
• Neonatal lung disease
• Alveolar capillary dysplasia
• Severe kyphoscoliosis
disorders
Pulmonary hypertension caused by chronic  
thromboembolic disease
• Thromboembolic 
• In situ thrombosis
• Sickle cell disease
obstruction of the proximal 
pulmonary arteries
Caval filters
A patient in whom anticoagulation is contraindicated, 
who has suffered massive haemorrhage on anticoagula-
tion, or recurrent VTE despite anticoagulation, should 
be considered for an inferior vena caval filter. Retrieva-
ble caval filters are particularly useful in patients with 
temporary risk factors. 
Miscellaneous
• Inflammatory conditions
• Extrinsic compression of central pulmonary veins
Adapted from Dana Point 2008. Simonneau G, et al. Updated clinical 
classification of pulmonary hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol 2009; 
54:S43–S54.
Prognosis
Immediate morality is greatest in those with echocardio-
graphic evidence of right ventricular dysfunction or car-
diogenic shock. Once anticoagulation is commenced, 
however, the risk of mortality rapidly falls. The risk of 
recurrence is highest in the first 6–12 months after the 
initial event, and at 10 years around one-third of indi-
viduals will have suffered a further event.
Pulmonary hypertension
Pathological features include hypertrophy of both the 
media and the intima of the vessel wall, and a clonal 
expansion of endothelial cells which take on the appear-
ance of plexiform lesions. There is marked narrowing of 
the vessel lumen and this, together with the frequently 
observed in situ thrombosis, leads to an increase  
in pulmonary vascular resistance and pulmonary 
hypertension.
Clinical features
PH presents insidiously and is often diagnosed late. 
Typical symptoms include breathlessness, chest pain, 
fatigue, palpitation and syncope. Important signs 
include elevation of the jugular venous pulse (with a 
prominent ‘a’ wave if in sinus rhythm), a parasternal 
heave (right ventricular hypertrophy), accentuation of 
the pulmonary component of the second heart sound 
and a right ventricular third heart sound. Signs of inter-
stitial lung disease or cardiac, liver or connective tissue 
disease may suggest the underlying cause.
724
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is defined as a mean pul-
monary artery pressure of at least 25 mmHg at rest, as 
measured at right heart catheterisation. The definition 
may be further refined by consideration of the pulmo-
nary wedge pressure, the cardiac output and the 
transpulmonary pressure gradient (mean PAP − mean 
PWP). The clinical classification of pulmonary hyperten-
sion is shown in Box 19.97. Further classification is based 
on the degree of functional disturbance, assessed using 
the New York Heart Association (NYHA) grades I–IV. 
Although respiratory failure due to intrinsic pulmonary 
disease is the most common cause of pulmonary hyper-
tension, severe pulmonary hypertension may occur as a 
primary disorder, as a complication of connective tissue 
disease (e.g. systemic sclerosis), or as a result of chronic 
thromboembolic events.
Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is a rare but 
important disease that affects predominantly women, 
aged between 20 and 30 years. Familial disease is rarer 
still but is known to be associated with mutations in the 
gene encoding type II bone morphogenetic protein 
receptor (BMPR2), a member of the TGF-β superfamily. 
Mutations in this gene have been identified in  
some patients with sporadic pulmonary hypertension. 
Investigations
PH is suspected if an electrocardiograph shows a right 
ventricular ‘strain’ pattern or a chest X-ray shows 
enlarged pulmonary arteries, peripheral pruning and 
right ventricle enlargement (Fig. 19.70). Doppler assess-
ment of the tricuspid regurgitant jet by transthoracic 
echocardiography provides a non-invasive estimate of 
Diseases of the upper airway
common type of seasonal allergic rhinitis in northern 
Europe, which is at its peak between May and July. 
However this is a worldwide problem, which may be 
aggravated during harvest seasons.
Perennial allergic rhinitis may be a specific reaction 
to antigens derived from house dust, fungal spores or 
animal dander, but similar symptoms can be caused by 
physical or chemical irritants – for example, pungent 
odours or fumes, including strong perfumes, cold air 
and dry atmospheres. The phrase ‘vasomotor rhinitis’ is 
often used in this context, as the term ‘allergic’ is a 
misnomer.
Fig. 19.70 Chest X-ray showing the typical appearance in 
pulmonary hypertension. 
Clinical features
In the seasonal type, there are frequent sudden attacks 
of sneezing, with profuse watery nasal discharge and 
nasal obstruction. These attacks last for a few hours and 
are often accompanied by smarting and watering of the 
eyes and conjunctival irritation. In perennial rhinitis, the 
symptoms are similar but more continuous and usually 
less severe. Skin hypersensitivity tests with the relevant 
antigen are usually positive in seasonal allergic rhinitis, 
but are less useful in perennial rhinitis.
19
the pulmonary artery pressure, which is equal to 4 × 
(tricuspid regurgitation velocity)2. Further assessment 
should be by right heart catheterisation to assess pulmo-
nary haemodynamics, measure vasodilator responsive-
ness and thus guide further therapy.
Management
In those sensitised to house dust, simple measures, such 
as thorough dust removal from the bed area, leaving a 
window open and renewing old pillows, are often 
helpful. Avoidance of pollen and antigens from domes-
tic pets, however desirable and beneficial, is usually 
impractical.
The following medications, singly or in combination, 
are usually effective in both seasonal and perennial aller-
gic rhinitis:
• an antihistamine such as loratadine
• sodium cromoglicate nasal spray
• steroid nasal spray, e.g. beclometasone 
dipropionate, fluticasone, mometasone or 
budesonide.
In patients whose symptoms are very severe and seri-
ously interfering with school, business or social activi-
ties, systemic corticosteroids are occasionally indicated, 
but adverse effects limit their usefulness. Vasomotor 
rhinitis is often difficult to treat, but may respond to 
ipratropium bromide, administered into each nostril  
3 times daily.
Sleep-disordered breathing
Management
The management of PH should be guided by expert 
advice. General measures include diuretic therapy for 
right heart failure, and long-term oxygen therapy for 
those with chronic hypoxaemia. Unless there is an 
increased risk of bleeding, anticoagulation should be 
considered. Digoxin may be useful in patients who 
develop atrial tachyarrhythmias. Pregnancy carries a 
very high risk of death and women of child-bearing age 
should be counselled appropriately. Excessive physical 
activity that leads to distressing symptoms should be 
avoided but otherwise patients should be encouraged to 
remain active. Pneumococcal and influenza vaccination 
should be given.
Specific treatment options include high-dose calcium 
channel blockers, prostaglandins such as epoprostenol 
(prostacyclin) or iloprost therapy, the phosphodiester ase 
type 5 (PDE5) inhibitor sildenafil, and the oral endothelin 
antagonist bosentan. Selected patients are referred for 
heart–lung transplantation, and pulmonary thrombo-
endarterectomy may be contemplated in those with 
chronic proximal pulmonary thromboembolic disease. 
Another alternative is atrial septostomy (the creation of 
a right-to-left shunt), which decompresses the right ven-
tricle and improves haemodynamic performance.
DISEASES OF THE UPPER AIRWAY
Diseases of the nasopharynx
725
A variety of respiratory disorders affect sleep or are 
affected by sleep. Cough and wheeze disturbing sleep 
are characteristic of asthma, while the hypoventilation 
that accompanies normal sleep can precipitate respira-
tory failure in patients with disordered ventilation due 
to kyphoscoliosis, diaphragmatic palsy or muscle disease 
(e.g. muscular dystrophy).
In contrast, a small but important group of disorders 
cause problems only during sleep. Patients with these 
may have normal lungs and daytime respiratory func-
tion, but during sleep have either abnormalities of ven-
tilatory drive (central sleep apnoea) or upper airway 
obstruction (obstructive sleep apnoea). Of these, the 
obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome is by far 
the most common and important. When this coexists 
Allergic rhinitis
This is a disorder in which there are episodes of nasal 
congestion, watery nasal discharge and sneezing. It may 
be seasonal or perennial, and is due to an immediate 
hypersensitivity reaction in the nasal mucosa. Seasonal 
antigens include pollens from grasses, flowers, weeds or 
trees. Grass pollen is responsible for hay fever, the most 
RespiRatoRy disease
19
with COPD, severe respiratory failure can result even if 
the COPD is mild.
feels that he or she has been asleep all night but wakes 
unrefreshed. Bed partners report loud snoring in all 
body positions and often have noticed multiple breath-
ing pauses (apnoeas). Difficulty with concentration, 
impaired cognitive function and work performance, 
depression, irritability and nocturia are other features.
The sleep apnoea/hypopnoea 
syndrome
It is now recognised that 2–4% of the middle-aged popu-
lation suffer from recurrent upper airway obstruction 
during sleep. The resulting sleep fragmentation causes 
daytime sleepiness, especially in monotonous situations, 
resulting in a threefold increased risk of road traffic acci-
dents and a ninefold increased risk of single-vehicle 
accidents.
Investigations
Provided that the sleepiness does not result from inad-
equate time in bed or from shift work, anyone who 
repeatedly falls asleep during the day when not in bed, 
who complains that his or her work is impaired by 
sleepi ness, or who is a habitual snorer with multiple 
witnessed apnoeas should be referred for a sleep assess-
ment. A more quantitative assessment of daytime sleepi-
ness can be obtained by questionnaire (Box 19.98).
Overnight studies of breathing, oxygenation and 
sleep quality are diagnostic (Fig. 19.71) but the level of 
19.98 Epworth sleepiness scale
How likely are you to doze off or fall asleep in the situations 
described below? Choose the most appropriate number for each 
situation from the following scale:
0 = would never doze
1 = slight chance of dozing
2 = moderate chance of dozing
3 = high chance of dozing
• Sitting and reading
• Watching TV
• Sitting inactive in a public place (e.g. a theatre or a meeting)
• As a passenger in a car for an hour without a break
• Lying down to rest in the afternoon when circumstances 
permit
• Sitting and talking to someone
• Sitting quietly after a lunch without alcohol
• In a car, while stopped for a few minutes in the traffic
Normal subjects average 5.9 (SD 2.2) and patients with 
severe obstructive sleep apnoea average 16.0 (SD 4.4).
Oxygen
saturation
%
CPAP night
Baseline night
100
50
0
2400 0100 0200 0300 0400
2400 0100 0200 0300 0400
Time (hrs)
Time (hrs)
Aetiology
Sleep apnoea results from recurrent occlusion of the 
pharynx during sleep, usually at the level of the soft 
palate. Inspiration results in negative pressure within 
the pharynx. During wakefulness, upper airway dilating 
muscles, including palatoglossus and genioglossus, con-
tract actively during inspiration to preserve airway 
patency. During sleep, muscle tone declines, impairing 
the ability of these muscles to maintain pharyngeal 
patency. In a minority of people, a combination of an 
anatomically narrow palatopharynx and underactivity 
of the dilating muscles during sleep results in inspira-
tory airway obstruction. Incomplete obstruction causes 
turbulent flow, resulting in snoring (around 40% of 
middle-aged men and 20% of middle-aged women 
snore). More severe obstruction triggers increased 
inspiratory effort and transiently wakes the patient, 
allowing the dilating muscles to re-open the airway. 
These awakenings are so brief that patients have no 
recollection of them. After a series of loud deep breaths 
that may wake their bed partner, the patient rapidly 
returns to sleep, snores and becomes apnoeic once more. 
This cycle of apnoea and awakening may repeat itself 
many hundreds of times per night and results in severe 
sleep fragmentation and secondary variations in blood 
pressure, which may predispose over time to cardiovas-
cular disease.
Predisposing factors to the sleep apnoea/hypopnoea 
syndrome include male gender, which doubles the  
risk, and obesity, which is found in about 50%,  
because parapharyngeal fat deposits tend to narrow the 
pharynx. Nasal obstruction or a recessed mandible can 
further exacerbate the problem. Acromegaly and hypo-
thyroidism also predispose by causing submucosal infil-
tration and narrowing of the upper airway. Sleep apnoea 
is often familial, where the maxilla and mandible are 
back-set, narrowing the upper airway. Alcohol and 
seda tives predispose to snoring and apnoea by relaxing 
the upper airway dilating muscles. As a result of marked 
sympathetic activation during apnoea, sleep-disordered 
breathing is associated over time with sustained hyper-
tension and an increased risk of coronary events and 
stroke. An association has also been described with 
insulin resistance, the metabolic syndrome and type II 
diabetes. Treatment of sleep apnoea reduces sympa-
thetic drive and blood pressure, and may also improve 
these associated metabolic disorders.
Fig. 19.71 Sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome: overnight oxygen 
saturation trace. The left-hand panel shows the trace of a patient who 
had 53 apnoeas plus hypopnoeas/hour, 55 brief awakenings/hour and 
marked oxygen desaturation. The right-hand panel shows the effect of 
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) of 10 cm H2O delivered 
through a tight-fitting nasal mask: it abolished his breathing irregularity and 
awakenings, and improved oxygenation. 
726
Clinical features
Excessive daytime sleepiness is the principal symptom 
and snoring is virtually universal. The patient usually 
Diseases of the upper airway
19.100 Causes of chronic laryngitis
19.99 Differential diagnosis of 
persistent sleepiness
Lack of sleep
• Inadequate time in bed
• Extraneous sleep disruption 
(e.g. babies/children)
• Shift work
• Excessive caffeine intake
• Physical illness (e.g. pain)
• Repeated attacks of acute laryngitis
• Excessive use of the voice, especially in dusty atmospheres
• Heavy tobacco smoking
• Mouth-breathing from nasal obstruction
• Chronic infection of nasal sinuses
Sleep disruption
• Sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome
• Periodic limb movement disorder (recurrent limb movements 
during non-REM sleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings)
Sleepiness with relatively normal sleep
• Narcolepsy
• Idiopathic hypersomnolence (rare)
• Neurological lesions (e.g. hypothalamic or upper brainstem 
infarcts or tumours)
• Drugs
Psychological/psychiatric
• Depression
Chronic laryngitis
The common causes are listed in Box 19.100. The chief 
symptoms are hoarseness or loss of voice (aphonia). 
There is irritation of the throat and a spasmodic cough. 
The disease pursues a chronic course, frequently unin-
fluenced by treatment, and the voice may become per-
manently impaired. Other causes of chronic hoarseness 
include use of inhaled corticosteroid treatment, tubercu-
losis, laryngeal paralysis or tumour.
In some patients, a chest X-ray may reveal an unsus-
19
pected bronchial carcinoma or pulmonary tuberculosis. 
If these are not found, laryngoscopy should be per-
formed to exclude a local structural cause.
When no specific treatable cause is found, the voice 
must be rested completely. This is particularly impor-
tant in public speakers and singers. Smoking should be 
avoided. Some benefit may be obtained from frequent 
inhalations of medicated steam.
investigations depends on local resources and the prob-
ability of the diagnosis. The current threshold for diag-
nosing moderate sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome is 
15 apnoeas/hypopnoeas per hour of sleep, where an 
apnoea is defined as a 10-second or longer breathing 
pause and a hypopnoea a 10-second or longer 50% 
reduction in breathing.
Several other conditions can cause daytime sleepi-
ness but can usually be excluded by a careful history 
(Box 19.99). Narcolepsy is a rare cause of sleepiness, 
occurring in 0.05% of the population (p. 1187). Idiopathic 
hypersomnolence occurs in younger individuals and is 
characterised by long nocturnal sleeps.
Laryngeal paralysis
Interruption of the motor nerve supply of the larynx  
is nearly always unilateral and, because of the intratho-
racic course of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, 
usually left-sided. One or both recurrent laryngeal 
nerves may be damaged at thyroidectomy, by carci-
noma of the thyroid or by anterior neck injury. Rarely, 
the vagal trunk itself is involved by tumour, aneurysm 
or trauma.
Management
The major hazard to patients and those around them is 
traffic accidents, so all drivers must be advised not to 
drive until treatment has relieved their sleepiness. In a 
minority, relief of nasal obstruction or the avoidance of 
alcohol may prevent obstruction. Advice to obese 
patients to lose weight is often unheeded, and the major-
ity of patients need to use continuous positive airway 
pressure (CPAP) delivered by a nasal mask every night 
to splint the upper airway open. When CPAP is toler-
ated, the effect is often dramatic (see Fig. 19.71), with 
relief of somnolence and improved daytime perform-
ance, quality of life and survival. Unfortunately, 30–50% 
of patients do not tolerate CPAP. Mandibular advance-
ment devices that fit over the teeth and hold the mandi-
ble forward, thus opening the pharynx, are an alternative 
that is effective in some patients. There is no evidence 
that palatal surgery is of benefit.
Laryngeal disorders
727
Clinical features and management
Hoarseness always accompanies laryngeal paralysis, 
whatever its cause. Paralysis of organic origin is seldom 
reversible, but when only one vocal cord is affected, 
hoarseness may improve or even disappear after a few 
weeks, as the normal cord compensates by crossing the 
midline to approximate with the paralysed cord on 
phonation.
‘Bovine cough’ is a characteristic feature of organic 
laryngeal paralysis, and lacks the explosive quality of 
normal coughing because the cords fail to close the 
glottis. Sputum clearance may also be impaired. A 
normal cough in patients with partial loss of voice or 
aphonia virtually excludes laryngeal paralysis. Stridor is 
occasionally present but seldom severe, except when 
laryngeal paralysis is bilateral.
Laryngoscopy is required to establish the diagnosis 
of laryngeal paralysis. The paralysed cord lies in the 
so-called ‘cadaveric’ position, midway between abduc-
tion and adduction.
The cause should be treated, if possible. In unilateral 
paralysis, persistent dysphonia may be improved by the 
injection of Teflon into the affected vocal cord. In bilat-
eral organic paralysis, tracheal intubation, tracheostomy 
or plastic surgery on the larynx may be necessary.
The larynx is commonly affected by acute self-limiting 
infections (p. 681). Other disorders include chronic  
laryngitis, laryngeal tuberculosis, laryngeal paralysis 
and laryngeal obstruction. Tumours of the larynx  
are relatively common, particularly in smokers. For 
further details, the reader should refer to an otolaryn-
gology text.
RespiRatoRy disease
Tracheal disorders
19
Psychogenic hoarseness  
and aphonia
Psychogenic causes of hoarseness or aphonia may  
be suggested by associated symptoms in the history  
(p. 236). However, laryngoscopy may be necessary to 
exclude a physical cause. In psychogenic aphonia, only 
the voluntary movement of adduction of the vocal cords 
is seen to be impaired. Speech therapy may be helpful.
Tracheal obstruction
External compression by lymph nodes containing metas-
tases, usually from a bronchial carcinoma, is a more 
frequent cause of tracheal obstruction than primary 
benign or malignant tumours. The trachea may also be 
compressed by a retrosternal goitre (see Fig. 19.11,  
p. 657). Rare causes include an aneurysm of the aortic 
arch and (in children) tuberculous mediastinal lymph 
nodes. Tracheal stenosis is an occasional complication of 
tracheostomy, prolonged intubation, granulomatosis 
with polyangiitis (Wegener’s granulomatosis, p. 1118) or 
trauma.
Laryngeal obstruction
Laryngeal obstruction is more liable to occur in children 
than in adults because of the smaller size of the glottis. 
Important causes are given in Box 19.101. Sudden com-
plete laryngeal obstruction by a foreign body produces 
the clinical picture of acute asphyxia: violent but ineffec-
tive inspiratory efforts with indrawing of the intercostal 
spaces and the unsupported lower ribs, accompanied by 
cyanosis. Unrelieved, the condition progresses to coma 
and death within a few minutes. When, as in most cases, 
the obstruction is incomplete at first, the main clinical 
features are progressive breathlessness accompanied by 
stridor and cyanosis. Urgent treatment to prevent com-
plete obstruction is needed.
Clinical features and management
Stridor can be detected in every patient with severe tra-
cheal narrowing. Bronchoscopic examination of the 
trachea should be undertaken without delay to deter-
mine the site, degree and nature of the obstruction.
Localised tumours of the trachea can be resected, but 
reconstruction after resection may be technically diffi-
cult. Endobronchial laser therapy, bronchoscopically 
placed tracheal stents, chemotherapy and radiotherapy 
are alternatives to surgery. The choice of treatment 
depends upon the nature of the tumour and the general 
health of the patient. Benign tracheal strictures can 
sometimes be dilated but may require resection.
Tracheo-oesophageal fistula
This may be present in newborn infants as a congenital 
abnormality. In adults, it is usually due to malignant 
lesions in the mediastinum, such as carcinoma or lym-
phoma, eroding both the trachea and oesophagus to 
produce a communication between them. Swallowed 
liquids enter the trachea and bronchi through the fistula 
and provoke coughing.
Surgical closure of a congenital fistula, if under-
taken promptly, is usually successful. There is usually 
no curative treatment for malignant fistulae, and death 
from overwhelming pulmonary infection rapidly 
supervenes.
PLEURAL DISEASE
Pleurisy, pleural effusion, empyema and asbestos-
associated pleural disease have been described above.
Pneumothorax
Management
Transient laryngeal obstruction due to exudate and 
spasm, which may occur with acute pharyngitis in chil-
dren and with whooping cough, is potentially danger-
ous but can usually be relieved by steam inhalation. 
Laryngeal obstruction from all other causes carries a 
high mortality and demands prompt treatment.
When a foreign body causes laryngeal obstruction in 
children, it can often be dislodged by turning the patient 
head downwards, and squeezing the chest vigorously. 
In adults, a sudden forceful compression of the upper 
abdomen (Heimlich manœuvre) may be effective.  
Otherwise, the cause of the obstruction should be inves-
tigated by direct laryngoscopy, which may also permit 
the removal of an unsuspected foreign body or the inser-
tion of a tube past the obstruction into the trachea. Tra-
cheostomy must be performed without delay if these 
procedures fail to relieve obstruction but, except in dire 
emergencies, this should be performed in theatre by a 
surgeon.
In diphtheria, antitoxin should be administered, and 
for other infections the appropriate antibiotic should be 
given. In angioedema, complete laryngeal occlusion can 
usually be prevented by treatment with adrenaline 
(epinephrine) 0.5–1 mg (0.5–1 mL of 1 : 1000) IM, chlor-
phenamine maleate (10–20 mg by slow intravenous 
injection) and intravenous hydrocortisone sodium suc-
cinate (200 mg).
19.101 Causes of laryngeal obstruction
• Inflammatory or allergic oedema, or exudate
• Spasm of laryngeal muscles
• Inhaled foreign body
• Inhaled blood clot or vomitus in an unconscious patient
• Tumours of the larynx
• Bilateral vocal cord paralysis
• Fixation of both cords in rheumatoid disease
728
Pneumothorax is the presence of air in the pleural space, 
which can either occur spontaneously, or result from 
iatrogenic injury or trauma to the lung or chest wall (Box 
19.102). Primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs in 
patients with no history of lung disease. Smoking, tall 
stature and the presence of apical subpleural blebs are 
risk factors. Secondary pneumothorax affects patients 
with pre-existing lung disease and is associated with 
higher mortality rates (Fig. 19.72).
Where the communication between the airway and 
the pleural space seals off as the lung deflates and does 
not re-open, the pneumothorax is referred to as ‘closed’ 
Pleural disease
(Fig. 19.73A). The mean pleural pressure remains nega-
tive, spontaneous reabsorption of air and re-expansion 
of the lung occur over a few days or weeks, and infection 
is uncommon. This contrasts with an ‘open’ pneumo-
thorax, where the communication fails to seal and air 
continues to pass freely between the bronchial tree and 
pleural space (Fig. 19.73B). An example of the latter is a 
19.102 Classification of pneumothorax
Spontaneous
Primary
• No evidence of overt lung disease. Air escapes from the lung 
into the pleural space through rupture of a small pleural bleb, 
or the pulmonary end of a pleural adhesion
bronchopleural fistula, which, if large, can facilitate the 
transmission of infection from the airways into the 
pleural space, leading to empyema. An open pneumo-
thorax is commonly seen following rupture of an 
emphysematous bulla, tuberculous cavity or lung 
abscess into the pleural space.
Occasionally, the communication between the airway 
and the pleural space acts as a one-way valve, allowing 
air to enter the pleural space during inspiration but not 
to escape on expiration. Large amounts of trapped air 
accumulate progressively in the pleural space and the 
intrapleural pressure rises to well above atmospheric 
levels. This is a tension pneumothorax. The pressure 
causes mediastinal displacement towards the opposite 
side, with compression of the opposite normal lung and 
impairment of systemic venous return, causing cardio-
vascular compromise (Fig. 19.73C).
Secondary
• Underlying lung disease, most commonly COPD and 
tuberculosis; also seen in asthma, lung abscess, pulmonary 
infarcts, bronchogenic carcinoma, and all forms of fibrotic 
and cystic lung disease
19
Traumatic
• Iatrogenic (e.g. following thoracic surgery or biopsy) or chest 
wall injury
400
Male
Female
200
Clinical features
The most common symptoms are sudden-onset unilat-
eral pleuritic chest pain or breathlessness. In those indi-
viduals with underlying chest disease, breathlessness 
can be severe and may not resolve spontaneously. In 
patients with a small pneumothorax, physical examina-
tion may be normal. A larger pneumothorax (> 15% of 
the hemithorax) results in decreased or absent breath 
sounds (p. 645). The combination of absent breath 
sounds and resonant percussion note is diagnostic of 
pneumothorax.
By contrast, in tension pneumothorax there is rapidly 
progressive breathlessness associated with a marked 
tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis and tracheal dis-
placement away from the side of the silent hemithorax. 
Occasionally, tension pneumothorax may occur without 
mediastinal shift, if malignant disease or scarring has 
splinted the mediastinum.
Rate per million population
0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Patient age (years)
Fig. 19.72 Bimodal age distribution for hospital admissions for 
pneumothorax in England. The incidence of primary spontaneous 
pneumothorax peaks in males aged 15–30 years. Secondary spontaneous 
pneumothorax occurs mainly in males over 55 years. 
Investigations
The chest X-ray shows the sharply defined edge of the 
deflated lung with complete translucency (no lung 
markings) between this and the chest wall (p. 645). Care 
must be taken to differentiate between a large pre-
existing emphysematous bulla and a pneumothorax. CT 
is used in difficult cases to avoid misdirected attempts 
A
B
C
Closed type
Mean pleural pressure
negative
Open type
Mean pleural pressure
atmospheric
Tension type
Mean pleural pressure
positive, mediastinal shift
to opposite side
Fig. 19.73 Types of spontaneous pneumothorax.  A Closed type.  B Open type.  C Tension (valvular) type. 
729
RespiRatoRy disease
19.103 Pleural disease in old age
19
at aspiration. X-rays may also show the extent of any 
mediastinal displacement and reveal any pleural fluid 
or underlying pulmonary disease.
• Spontaneous pneumothorax: invariably associated with 
underlying lung disease in old age and has a significant 
mortality. Surgical or chemical pleurodesis is advised in all 
such patients.
• Rib fracture: common cause of pleural-type pain; may 
be spontaneous (due to coughing), traumatic or  
pathological. Underlying osteomalacia may contribute to  
poor healing, especially in the housebound with no  
exposure to sunlight.
• Tuberculosis: should always be considered and actively 
excluded in any elderly patient presenting with a unilateral 
pleural effusion.
• Mesothelioma: more common in older individuals than 
younger people due to a long latency period between 
asbestos exposure (often more than 20 yrs) and the 
development of disease.
• Analgesia: frail older people are particularly sensitive to the 
Management
Primary pneumothorax, in which the lung edge is less 
than 2 cm from the chest wall and the patient is not 
breathless, normally resolves without intervention. In 
young patients presenting with a moderate or large 
spontaneous primary pneumothorax, percutaneous 
needle aspiration of air is a simple and well-tolerated 
alternative to intercostal tube drainage, with a 60–80% 
chance of avoiding the need for a chest drain (Fig. 19.74). 
In patients with significant underlying chronic lung 
disease, however, secondary pneumothorax may cause 
respiratory distress. In these patients, the success rate of 
aspiration is much lower, and intercostal tube drainage 
and inpatient observation are usually required, particu-
larly in those individuals over 50 years old and those 
with respiratory compromise. If there is a tension pneu-
mothorax, immediate release of the positive pressure by 
respiratory depressant effects of opiate-based analgesia and 
careful monitoring is required when using these agents for 
pleural pain.
Mediastinal shift
and/or hypotension
(tension pneumothorax)
No
Yes1
Chronic lung disease
Yes
No
Pneumothorax
> 15% of
hemithorax
or significant
dyspnoea
Yes
> 50 years
of age
Yes
No
No
Percutaneous
needle
aspiration2
Intercostal tube drainage attached to underwater seal device
insertion of a blunt cannula into the pleural space may 
be beneficial, allowing time to prepare for chest drain 
insertion.
When needed, intercostal drains are inserted in the 
4th, 5th or 6th intercostal space in the mid-axillary line, 
connected to an underwater seal or one-way Heimlich 
valve, and secured firmly to the chest wall. Clamping of 
an intercostal drain is potentially dangerous and rarely 
indicated. The drain should be removed the morning 
after the lung has fully re-inflated and bubbling has 
stopped. Continued bubbling after 5–7 days is an indica-
tion for surgery. If bubbling in the drainage bottle stops 
before full re-inflation, the tube is either blocked, kinked 
or displaced. Supplemental oxygen may speed resolu-
tion, as it accelerates the rate at which nitrogen is reab-
sorbed by the pleura.
Patients with a closed pneumothorax should be 
advised not to fly, as the trapped gas expands at alti-
tude. After complete resolution, there is no clear evi-
dence to indicate how long patients should avoid flying, 
although guidelines suggest that waiting 1–2 weeks, 
with confirmation of full inflation prior to flight, is 
prudent. Patients should also be advised to stop smoking 
and informed about the risks of a recurrent pneumotho-
rax. Diving is potentially dangerous after pneumotho-
rax, unless a surgical pleurodesis has sealed the lung to 
the chest wall.
Yes
No
Observe
patient
for 6 hours
Outpatient
follow-up3
> 2.5 L air
aspirated or
pneumothorax
persists
Fig. 19.74 Management of spontaneous pneumothorax. 
(1) Immediate decompression prior to insertion of the intercostal drain.  
(2) Aspirate in the 2nd intercostal space anteriorly in the mid-clavicular line 
using a 16 F cannula; discontinue if resistance is felt, the patient coughs 
excessively, or more than 2.5 L of air are removed. (3) The post-aspiration 
chest X-ray is not a reliable indicator of whether a pleural leak remains, 
and all patients should be told to attend again immediately in the event of 
deterioration. 
730
Recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax
After primary spontaneous pneumothorax, recurrence 
occurs within a year of either aspiration or tube drainage 
in approximately 25% of patients, and should prompt 
definitive treatment. Surgical pleurodesis is recom-
mended in all patients following a second pneumotho-
rax and should be considered following the first episode 
of secondary pneumothorax if low respiratory reserve 
makes recurrence hazardous. Pleurodesis can be 
achieved by pleural abrasion or parietal pleurectomy at 
thoracotomy or thoracoscopy. 
Further information and acknowledgements
Deformities of the chest wall
DISEASES OF THE DIAPHRAGM AND 
CHEST WALL
Disorders of the diaphragm
Thoracic kyphoscoliosis
Abnormalities of alignment of the dorsal spine and  
their consequent effects on thoracic shape may be  
caused by:
• congenital abnormality
• vertebral disease, including tuberculosis, 
osteoporosis and ankylosing spondylitis
• trauma
• neuromuscular disease such as poliomyelitis.
Simple kyphosis (increased anteroposterior curva-
Congenital disorders
Diaphragmatic hernias
Congenital defects of the diaphragm can allow  
herniation of abdominal viscera. Posteriorly situated 
hernias through the foramen of Bochdalek are more 
common than anterior hernias through the foramen of 
Morgagni.
Eventration of the diaphragm
Abnormal elevation or bulging of one hemidiaphragm, 
more often the left, results from total or partial absence 
of muscular development of the septum transversum. 
Most eventrations are asymptomatic and are detected by 
chance on X-ray in adult life, but severe respiratory dis-
tress can be caused in infancy if the diaphragmatic mus-
cular defect is extensive.
ture) causes less pulmonary embarrassment than  
kyphoscoliosis (anteroposterior and lateral curvature). 
Kyphoscoliosis, if severe, restricts and distorts expan-
sion of the chest wall and impairs diaphragmatic func-
tion, causing ventilation–perfusion mismatch in the 
lungs. Patients with severe deformity may develop type 
II respiratory failure (initially manifest during sleep), 
pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular failure. 
They can often be successfully treated with non-invasive 
ventilatory support (p. 193).
19
Pectus excavatum
Pectus excavatum (funnel chest) is an idiopathic condi-
tion in which the body of the sternum, usually only the 
lower end, is curved inwards. The heart is displaced to 
the left and may be compressed between the sternum 
and the vertebral column but only rarely is there associ-
ated disturbance of cardiac function. The deformity may 
restrict chest expansion and reduce vital capacity. Oper-
ative correction is rarely performed, and then only for 
cosmetic reasons.
Pectus carinatum
Pectus carinatum (pigeon chest) is frequently caused by 
severe asthma during childhood. Very occasionally, this 
deformity can be produced by rickets or be idiopathic.
Acquired disorders
Elevation of a hemidiaphragm may result from paralysis 
or other structural causes (Box 19.104). The phrenic 
nerve may be damaged by bronchial carcinoma, disease 
of cervical vertebrae, tumours of the cervical cord, shin-
gles, trauma (including road traffic and birth injuries), 
surgery, and stretching of the nerve by mediastinal 
masses and aortic aneurysms. Idiopathic diaphragmatic 
paralysis occasionally occurs in otherwise fit patients. 
Paralysis of one hemidiaphragm results in loss of around 
20% of ventilatory capacity, but may not be noticed by 
otherwise healthy individuals. Ultrasound screening 
can be used to demonstrate paradoxical upward move-
ment of the paralysed hemidiaphragm on sniffing. CT 
of the chest and neck is the best way to exclude occult 
disease affecting the phrenic nerve.
Bilateral diaphragmatic weakness occurs in periph-
Further information and 
acknowledgements
Websites
www.brit-thoracic.org.uk Website of the British Thoracic 
Society with access to guidelines on a range of respiratory 
conditions.
www.ersnet.org European Respiratory Society provides 
information on education and research, and patient 
information.
eral neuropathies of any type, including Guillain–Barré 
syndrome (p. 1224), in disorders affecting the anterior 
horn cells, e.g. poliomyelitis (p. 1207), in muscular dys-
trophies, and in connective tissue disorders such as SLE 
and polymyositis (pp. 1109 and 1114).
Hiatus hernia is common (p. 865). Diaphragmatic 
rupture is usually caused by a crush injury and may not 
be detected until years later. Respiratory disorders that 
cause pulmonary hyperinflation, e.g. emphysema, and 
those that result in small stiff lungs, e.g. diffuse pulmo-
nary fibrosis, compromise diaphragmatic function and 
predispose to fatigue.
www.ginasthma.com Global Initiative for Asthma website with 
a comprehensive overview of asthma.
19.104 Causes of elevation of a hemidiaphragm
www.goldcopd.com Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive 
Lung Disease website containing a comprehensive overview  
of COPD.
• Phrenic nerve paralysis
• Eventration of the 
www.thoracic.org American Thoracic Society provides 
information on education and research, and patient 
information.
diaphragm
• Decrease in volume of one 
• Severe pleuritic pain
• Pulmonary infarction
• Subphrenic abscess
• Large volume of gas in the 
Figure acknowledgements
stomach or colon
• Large tumours or cysts of 
lung (e.g. lobectomy, 
unilateral pulmonary 
fibrosis)
the liver
731
Page 645 insets (upper lobe collapse) http://3.bp.blogspot.com; 
(pneumothorax) http://chestatlas.com; (pleural effusion) 
www.ispub.com.
RespiRatoRy disease
Fig. 19.2 www.Netter.com Illustrations 155 (bronchus, 
acinus) and 191 (circulation), Elsevier.
Fig. 19.28 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung 
Disease, www.goldcopd.com.
19
Fig. 19.35 Maartens G, Wilkinson RJ. Tuberculosis. Lancet 
2007; 370:2030–2043.
Fig. 19.4 Innes JA. Davidson’s Essentials of medicine. 
Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone; 2009 (Fig. 19.4, p. 791); 
copyright Elsevier.
Fig. 19.52 Adapted from Detterbeck FC, Boffa DJ, Tanoue 
LT. The new lung cancer staging system. Chest 2009; 
136:260–271.
Fig. 19.53 Johnson N McL. Respiratory medicine. Oxford: 
Blackwell Science; 1986.
Fig. 19.6A–C http://radiology.rsnajnls.org.
Fig. 19.8 Adapted from Flenley D. Lancet 1971; 1:1921.
Fig. 19.16 WHO Global surveillance, prevention and control 
of chronic respiratory diseases: a comprehensive 
approach.
Fig. 19.60 inset (erythema nodosum) Savin JA, Hunter JAA, 
Hepburn NC. Skin signs in clinical medicine. London: 
Mosby–Wolfe; 1997; copyright Elsevier.
Fig. 19.22 British Thoracic Society and SIGN guideline on 
the Management of Asthma.
732
M.W.J. Strachan
J. Newell-Price
Endocrine disease
20 
Clinical examination in endocrine  
The parathyroid glands 766
The hypothalamus and the pituitary  
disease 734
Functional anatomy, physiology and 
investigations 766
An overview of endocrinology 736
gland 785
Functional anatomy, physiology and 
investigations 786
Presenting problems in parathyroid  
disease 767
Hypercalcaemia 767
Hypocalcaemia 768
Functional anatomy and physiology 736
Endocrine pathology 736
Investigation of endocrine disease 737
Presenting problems in endocrine disease 737
The thyroid gland 738
Presenting problems in hypothalamic and 
pituitary disease 787
Hypopituitarism 787
Pituitary tumour 789
Hyperprolactinaemia/galactorrhoea 790
Primary hyperparathyroidism 769
Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia 770
Hypoparathyroidism 770
Functional anatomy, physiology and 
investigations 738
The adrenal glands 771
Presenting problems in thyroid disease 740
Prolactinoma 791
Acromegaly 792
Craniopharyngioma 793
Diabetes insipidus 794
Functional anatomy and physiology 771
Presenting problems in adrenal  
Disorders affecting multiple endocrine 
Thyrotoxicosis 740
Hypothyroidism 743
Asymptomatic abnormal thyroid function 
tests 745
Thyroid lump or swelling 746
glands 795
Multiple endocrine neoplasia 795
Autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes 795
Late effects of childhood cancer therapy 796
disease 773
Cushing’s syndrome 773
Therapeutic use of glucocorticoids 776
Adrenal insufficiency 777
Incidental adrenal mass 779
Primary hyperaldosteronism 780
Phaeochromocytoma and paraganglioma 781
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia 782
Autoimmune thyroid disease 747
Transient thyroiditis 751
Iodine-associated thyroid disease 752
Simple and multinodular goitre 752
Thyroid neoplasia 754
Congenital thyroid disease 755
The endocrine pancreas and gastrointestinal 
The reproductive system 756
Functional anatomy, physiology and 
investigations 756
tract 782
Presenting problems in endocrine pancreas 
disease 783
Spontaneous hypoglycaemia 783
Presenting problems in reproductive  
Gastroenteropancreatic neuro-endocrine 
tumours 784
disease 758
Delayed puberty 758
Amenorrhoea 759
Male hypogonadism 760
Infertility 761
Gynaecomastia 762
Hirsutism 763
Polycystic ovarian syndrome 764
Turner’s syndrome 765
Klinefelter’s syndrome 766
733
