title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#4    Document :  Corrected Card for a U.S. Born Adult  If you legally change your name because of marriage, divorce, court order or any other reason , you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a corrected card. If you are working , also tell your employer. If you do not tell us when your name changes , it may : Prevent your wages from being posted correctly to your Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your future Social Security benefits. Cause delays when you file your taxes. Important We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. All documents must be current not expired. We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use your U.S. passport as proof of both citizenship and identity.  What original documents do I need?  Citizenship If you have not already established your U.S. citizenship with us , we need to see proof of U.S. citizenship. We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include a U.S. birth certificate or U.S. passport. Important This documentation is only required if you haveNOT already established citizenship with us. Name Change If you need to change your name on your Social Security card , you must show us proof of your legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove a legal name change include : Marriage document ; Divorce decree ; Certificate of Naturalization showing the new name ; or Court order approving the name change. If the document you provide as evidence of a legal name change does not give us enough information to identify you in our records or if you changed your name more than two years ago four years ago if you are under 18 years of age , you must show us an identity document in your prior name as shown in our records. We will accept an identity document in your old name that has expired. If you do not have an identity document in your prior name , we may accept an unexpired identity document in your new name, as long as we can properly establish your identity in our records. Identity We can accept only certain documents as proof of identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note Your new card will have the same number as your previous card, but will show your new name. We will mail your card as soon as we have all of your information and have verified your documents. 
title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Benefits For Your Spouse | Social Security Administration#2    Document :  Benefits For Your Spouse  Even if you have never worked under Social Security , you may be able to get spouse s retirement benefits if you are at least 62 years of age and your spouse is receiving retirement or disability benefits. You can also qualify for Medicare at age 65. If you are divorced , you may still be able to get benefits on your ex - spouse's record. For information on the requirements for Divorced Spouse's Benefits , read " If You Are Divorced You can receive the spouse's benefit no matter what your age is if you are caring for their child who is also receiving benefits.  How Much Will I Receive?  If you qualify and apply for your own retirement benefits and for benefits as a spouse , we always pay your own benefits first. If your benefits as a spouse are higher than your own retirement benefits , you will get a combination of benefits equaling the higher spouse benefit. If you begin receiving benefits : between age 62 and your full retirement age , the amount will be permanently reduced by a percentage based on the number of months up to your full retirement age. If you are under full retirement age and you continue to work while receiving benefits , your benefits may be affected by the retirement earnings test. at your full retirement age , your benefit as a spouse cannot exceed one - half of your spouse's full retirement amount. If you were born before January 2 , 1954 and have already reached full retirement age , you can choose to receive only the spouse s benefit and delay receiving your retirement benefit until a later date. If your spouse is full retirement age and applying for spouse s benefits only , they can apply online by using the retirement application. Your spouse can also contact us to schedule an appointment. If your spouse s birthday is January 2 , 1954 or later , the option to take only one benefit at full retirement age no longer exists. If your spouse files for one benefit , they will be effectively filing for all retirement or spousal benefits. If you will receive a pension for work not covered by Social Security such as government employment , the amount of your Social Security benefits on your spouse's record may be reduced. Benefits paid to you as a spouse will not decrease your spouse s retirement benefit. In fact , the value of the benefits you may receive, added to their benefits, may help your spouse decide if taking benefits sooner may be more advantageous.  Maximum Family Benefits  If one of your spouse's children also qualifies for benefits , there is a limit to the amount we can pay family members. The total depends on your spouse's benefit amount and the number of family members who also qualify on the same record. The total varies , but generally the total amount the worker your spouse and their family members can receive is about 150 to 180 percent of the worker's full retirement benefit.  How Do I Apply?  You can apply : Online - Use our Social Security Retirement / Medicare Benefit Application to apply for retirement, spouse's, divorced spouse's or Medicare benefits. If your spouse is already receiving benefits when you apply , or if you and your spouse apply at the same time , we will also check your eligibility for benefits as a spouse. If you qualify , your application will automatically serve as a request for spousal benefits. By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate.  Next Steps  Even if you do not qualify for benefits on someone else's record , some members of your family may qualify for benefits on your record. If you: are interested in information about benefits for your family, go to " Benefits For Your Family. " never married or had children , go to " How You Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare. " 
title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | You Can Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare | Social Security Administration#2    Document :  You Can Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare  Apply Online The easiest and quickest way to apply for retirement, spouse's, ex - spouse's, or Medicare benefits is to apply online. Apply By Phone Call us at If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY Apply In Person Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. You must be at least 61 years and 9 months old to apply for retirement benefits. If you are already age 62 , you may be able to start your benefits in the month you apply. You should apply for benefits no more than four months before the date you want your benefits to start. Benefits are paid the month after they are due. If your benefits start in April, you will receive your first benefit payment in May. If you are not getting Social Security and you are not ready to retire , you should still use our online retirement benefit application to sign up for just Medicare three months before your 65th birthday.  When You Apply  Please be ready to supply the information we need to approve your application for these benefits : You Need To Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare - Form SSA-1 Information You Need to Apply for Spouse's or Divorced Spouse's Benefits Information - Form SSA-2 You Need To Apply for Child's Benefits - Form SSA-4 Information We may ask you to provide certain documents to show that you are eligible and help us decide how much your benefits should be. If you do not have a birth certificate , you may request one from the state where you were born. For details on where to write in your state , check. Also , bring along your bank information so you can sign up for Direct Deposit. If you do not have a bank account you can sign up for the Direct Express card program. With Direct Express , deposits from federal payments are made directly to the card.  Other Retirement Planning Websites  Benefit Eligibility Screening Tool BEST to help identify other Social Security programs for which you may be eligible. The Employee Benefit Research Institute , Ballpark E$timator this calculator to get a basic idea of how much you need to save before you retire. Department of Labor DOL Publications And Reports page links to publications and consumer information on health benefits and retirement planning. Retirement Savings Toolkit page links to English and Spanish publications about retirement savings. " Planning for Retirement / Retiring" MyMoney.gov page provides links to a variety of retirement planning tools, including a Medicare Eligibility Tool. Retirement Resources USA.gov site provides a variety of financial planning tools, including a Federal Employees Retirement Calculator. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) (If you have or had a job with a defined benefit pension, the PBGC may be protecting your pension. If your pension plan was terminated, you may be able to use the PBGC's Find an Unclaimed Pension tool to find out if you have unclaimed benefits.) 
title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#5    Document :  Corrected Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Child  If you legally change your child's name because of adoption, court order or any other reason , you need to tell Social Security so that your child can get a corrected card. If your child is working , also tell your child's employer. If you do not tell us when your child's name changes , it may : Delay your tax refund or your child's refund ; and Prevent your child's wages from being posted correctly to your child's Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your child's future Social Security benefits. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document.  What original documents do I need?  Citizenship If you have not previously established your child's U.S. citizenship with us , we need to see proof of U.S. citizenship. We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include : Certification of Report of Birth DS-1350 ; Consular Report of Birth Abroad FS-240 ; U.S. passport ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 ; or Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561. Name Change If you need to change the name on your child's Social Security card , you must show us proof of your child's legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove your child's legal name change include : Final adoption decree with the new name ; Certificate of Naturalization showing the new name ; or Court order approving the name change. If the document you provide as evidence of your child's legal name change does not give us enough information to identify your child in our records or if you changed your child's name more than four years ago , you must show us an identity document in your child's prior name as shown in our records. We will accept an identity document in your child's old name that has expired. If you do not have an identity document in your child's prior name , we may accept an unexpired identity document in your child's new name as long as we can properly establish your child's identity in our records. Identity Your child : We can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note Your child's new card will have the same number as your child's previous card, but will show a new name. We will mail your child's card as soon as we have all of your child's information and have verified your child's documents. 
title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Getting Benefits While Working | Social Security Administration#2    Document :  Getting Benefits While Working  You can work while you receive Social Security retirement or survivors benefits. When you do , it could mean a higher benefit for you in the future. Each year we review the records for all working Social Security recipients. If your earnings for the prior year are higher than one of the years we used to compute your retirement benefit , we will recalculate your benefit amount. We pay the increase retroactive to January the year after you earned the money. Higher benefits can be important to you later in life and increase the future benefit amounts your family and your survivors could receive.  How Much Can I Earn And Still Get Benefits?  If you are younger than full retirement age and make more than the yearly earnings limit , your earnings may reduce your benefit amount. (Full retirement age is 66 for people born between 1943 and 1954. Beginning with 1955, two months are added for every birth year until the full retirement age reaches 67 for people born in 1960 or later.) If you are under full retirement age for the entire year , we deduct $1 from your benefit payments for every $2 you earn above the annual limit. For 2019 , that limit is $17,640. 
title : Medicare Benefits | Social Security Administration#2    Document :  How To Apply Online For Just Medicare  You can apply online for Medicare even if you are not ready to retire. Use our online application to sign up for Medicare. It takes less than 10 minutes. In most cases , once your application is submitted electronically , you re done. There are no forms to sign and usually no documentation is required. Social Security will process your application and contact you if we need more information. Otherwise , you ll receive your Medicare card in the mail. Learn more about your Medicare card. Apply for Medicare Only Return to Saved Application|Check Application Status|Replace Medicare Card Medicare is managed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS. Social Security works with CMS by enrolling people in Medicare. For more information about applying for Medicare only and delaying retirement benefits , visit Applying for Medicare Only Before You Decide. To find out what documents and information you need to apply , go to the Checklist For The Online Medicare, Retirement, And Spouses Application.  New Medicare Cards  To help protect your identity , Medicare has sent you a new Medicare card. Your new card will have a new Medicare Number that s unique to you, instead of your Social Security Number. If you did not receive your new Medicare card , there may be something that needs to be corrected, like your mailing address. You can update your mailing address by logging in to or creating your personal my Social Security account.  Learn about Medicare  Medicare is our country s health insurance program for people age 65 or older. Certain people younger than age 65 can qualify for Medicare, too, including those with disabilities and those who have permanent kidney failure. To learn more , read our Medicare publication.  Already Enrolled in Medicare  If you already have Medicare , you can get information and services online. Find out how to manage your benefits. If you already have Medicare Part A and wish to sign up for Medicare Part B, please complete form CMS 40-B, Application for Enrollment in Medicare - Part B Medical Insurance, and take or mail it to your local Social Security office. Anyone who has Medicare can get Medicare prescription drug coverage. Some people with limited resources and income also may be able to get Extra Help to pay for the costs.  Applying for Medicare  When you apply for Medicare , you can sign up for Part A Hospital Insurance and Part B Medical Insurance. Because you must pay a premium for Part B coverage , you can turn it down. However , if you decide to enroll in Part B later on , you may have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B coverage. Your monthly premium will go up 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Part B, but didn t sign up for it, unless you qualify for a special enrollment period. If you re eligible at age 65 , your initial enrollment period begins three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn age 65, and ends three months after that birthday. However , if you don t enroll in Medicare Part B during your initial enrollment period , you have another chance each year to sign up during a general enrollment period from January 1 through March 31. Your coverage begins on July 1 of the year you enroll. Read our Medicare publication for more information.  Questions about our online application  Who can apply for Medicare online?  You can use our online Medicare application if you : Are at least 64 years and 9 months old ; Want to sign up for Medicare but do not currently have ANY Medicare coverage ; Do not want to start receiving Social Security benefits at this time ; and Are not currently receiving Social Security retirement, disability or survivors benefits.  When should I apply?  You should sign up for Medicare three months before reaching age 65, even if you are not ready to start receiving retirement benefits. You can opt out of receiving cash retirement benefits now once you are in the online application. Then you can apply online for retirement benefits later. With our online application , you can sign up for Medicare Part A Hospital Insurance and Part B Medical Insurance. Because you must pay a premium for Part B coverage , you can turn it down. If you choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B and then decide to do so later , your coverage may be delayed and you may have to pay a higher monthly premium for as long as you have Part B. Your monthly premium will go up 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Part B, but didn t sign up for it, unless you qualify for a " Special Enrollment Period. "  Special Enrollment Period (SEP)  If you have medical insurance coverage under a group health plan based on your or your spouse's current employment , you may not need to apply for Medicare Part B at age 65. You may qualify for a " Special Enrollment Period " SEP that will let you sign up for Part B during : Any month you remain covered under the group health plan and your, or your spouse's, employment continues ; or The 8-month period that begins with the month after your group health plan coverage or the employment it is based on ends , whichever comes first.  Why apply for Medicare online?  Using the online Medicare application has a number of benefits. You can: Avoid trips to your Social Security Office, saving you time and money. Answer questions at your convenience by starting and stopping the application without fear of losing any information you entered. Make corrections to the application prior to submission. Submit your application electronically. There is no need to mail in your application. When you are finished , just select Submit Now to send your application to Social Security. Receive a receipt online for your application that you can print and keep for your records. Check the status of your application online. You will receive a confirmation number once you submit your application.  What happens after I apply?  Once we receive your application , we will Review your application and contact you if we need more information or if we need to see your documents ; Process your application once we have all of the necessary information and documents ; and Mail you a decision letter.  Other Medicare registration/enrollment options  You can also apply : By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. 
title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#12    Document :  Original Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Child  Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document.  What original documents do I need?  Citizenship We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include : Certification of Report of Birth DS-1350 ; Consular Report of Birth Abroad FS-240 ; U.S. passport ; Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561 ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570. Age You must present your child's foreign birth certificate if you have it or can get it within 10 days. If not , we will consider other documents such as your child's passport or a document issued by DHS as evidence of your child's age. Anyone age 12 or older requesting an original Social Security number must appear in person for an interview. We will ask for evidence so we can check our records that we have not already issued a Social Security card to your child. Here are examples of documents that we may need to see : If your child lived outside the United States for an extended period , a current or previous passport , school and/or employment records , and any other record that would show long - term residence outside the United States. If your child has lived in the United States information about the schools your child attended , and copies of tax records. Identity Your child : We can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use your U.S. passport as proof of both citizenship and identity. However , you must provide at least two separate documents. 
title : Benefits Planner | Social Security Administration#1    Document :  Benefits Planner  Social Security can provide you, your spouse, and other eligible members of your family with benefits : when you retire ; if you become disabled ; and when you die. Use our planners to help you better understand your Social Security protection as you plan for your financial future. Then choose a benefit calculator to get estimates of benefits you and your family may be eligible for.  Apply For Benefits Online  If you want to apply for retirement benefits, disability benefits, or just Medicare and you meet certain criteria , you can complete your application online. You will be asked to agree to a Terms of Service Agreement and create or log in to your personal my Social Security account. If we are not able to process your request , you will receive specific information on how to contact us by phone or schedule an appointment. If you are the spouse or divorced spouse of a retired or disabled worker , within 3 months of age 62 or older and you meet certain criteria , you can fill out your application for monthly benefits or just Medicare online. For more information about ways to apply , visit For more information about applying for Medicare only and delaying retirement benefits , visit  Retirement Benefits  Use our Retirement Planner to learn : how you qualify for Social Security retirement benefits ; about possible benefits you may be eligible for on someone else's record ; which members of your family may get benefits based on your earnings record ; and how and when you should apply.  Disability Benefits  Use our Disability Planner to find out how you and your family may qualify for benefits if you become severely disabled before you qualify for retirement benefits. Even very young workers may already have earned disability protection. Learn more about work credits and how they affect disability benefits.  Survivors Benefits  Use our Survivors Planner to learn : if you die how your family members are protected or how you may qualify as a survivor on someone else's Social Security record. This protection is particularly important for young families with children. Even very young workers may have this protection. Learn more about work credits and how they affect survivors benefits.  Spouse's Benefits  Even if you never worked under Social Security , you may still qualify for benefits if you are the : spouse or divorced spouse of a retired worker ; spouse or divorced spouse of a disabled worker ; or widow / widower or surviving divorced spouse of a deceased worker.  Online Tools  Use one of our benefit calculators to help you plan to : Get your online with your personal my Social Security account to verify that your earnings are posted correctly and to get estimates of your future retirement, disability, and survivors benefits. If you already have enough Social Security credits to qualify for benefits , you can use our Retirement Estimator to get a personalized, instant estimate of your retirement benefits. You can enter different dates and ages to determine the best time for you to retire. If you want an estimate for survivors or disability benefits, or you do not already have enough Social Security credits to qualify for benefits , use one of our benefit calculators to estimate your future retirement, disability, and survivors benefits. 
title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | Benefits For Your Spouse | Social Security Administration#1    Document :  Benefits Planner: Retirement  Benefits For Your Spouse  Even if you have never worked under Social Security , you may be able to get spouse s retirement benefits if you are at least 62 years of age and your spouse is receiving retirement or disability benefits. You can also qualify for Medicare at age 65. If you are divorced , you may still be able to get benefits on your ex - spouse's record. For information on the requirements for Divorced Spouse's Benefits , read " If You Are Divorced You can receive the spouse's benefit no matter what your age is if you are caring for their child who is also receiving benefits.  How Much Will I Receive?  If you qualify and apply for your own retirement benefits and for benefits as a spouse , we always pay your own benefits first. If your benefits as a spouse are higher than your own retirement benefits , you will get a combination of benefits equaling the higher spouse benefit. If you begin receiving benefits : between age 62 and your full retirement age , the amount will be permanently reduced by a percentage based on the number of months up to your full retirement age. If you are under full retirement age and you continue to work while receiving benefits , your benefits may be affected by the retirement earnings test. at your full retirement age , your benefit as a spouse cannot exceed one - half of your spouse's full retirement amount. If you were born before January 2 , 1954 and have already reached full retirement age , you can choose to receive only the spouse s benefit and delay receiving your retirement benefit until a later date. If your spouse is full retirement age and applying for spouse s benefits only , they can apply online by using the retirement application. Your spouse can also contact us to schedule an appointment. If your spouse s birthday is January 2 , 1954 or later , the option to take only one benefit at full retirement age no longer exists. If your spouse files for one benefit , they will be effectively filing for all retirement or spousal benefits. If you will receive a pension for work not covered by Social Security such as government employment , the amount of your Social Security benefits on your spouse's record may be reduced. Benefits paid to you as a spouse will not decrease your spouse s retirement benefit. In fact , the value of the benefits you may receive, added to their benefits, may help your spouse decide if taking benefits sooner may be more advantageous.  Maximum Family Benefits  If one of your spouse's children also qualifies for benefits , there is a limit to the amount we can pay family members. The total depends on your spouse's benefit amount and the number of family members who also qualify on the same record. The total varies , but generally the total amount the worker your spouse and their family members can receive is about 150 to 180 percent of the worker's full retirement benefit.  How Do I Apply?  You can apply : Online - Use our Social Security Retirement / Medicare Benefit Application to apply for retirement, spouse's, divorced spouse's or Medicare benefits. If your spouse is already receiving benefits when you apply , or if you and your spouse apply at the same time , we will also check your eligibility for benefits as a spouse. If you qualify , your application will automatically serve as a request for spousal benefits. By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate.  Next Steps  Even if you do not qualify for benefits on someone else's record , some members of your family may qualify for benefits on your record. If you: are interested in information about benefits for your family, go to " Benefits For Your Family. " never married or had children , go to " How You Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare. " 
title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#8    Document :  Original Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Adult  Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document.  What original documents do I need?  Citizenship We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include : U.S. passport ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 ; Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561 ; Certificate of Report of Birth DS-1350 ; Consular Report of Birth Abroad FS-240, CRBA. Age You must present your foreign birth certificate if you have it or can get it within 10 days. If not , we will consider other documents such as your passport or a document issued by the Department of Homeland Security DHS as evidence of your age. Anyone age 12 or older requesting an original Social Security number must appear in person for an interview. We will ask for evidence to show you do not have a Social Security number. Here are examples of documents you can use to prove a Social Security number was never assigned : If you lived outside the United States for an extended period , a current or previous passport , school and/or employment records , and any other record that would show long - term residence outside the United States could be used to show you do not have a Social Security number. If you have lived in the United States and you are applying for an original Social Security number , we may ask you for information about the schools you attended or we may ask you to provide copies of tax records that would show you were never assigned a Social Security number. Identity We can accept only certain documents as proof of identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use your U.S. passport as proof of both citizenship and identity. However , you must provide at least two separate documents. 
title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#11    Document :  Original Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Adopted Child  Information You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document. Adoption In some cases , we can assign your adopted child a number before the adoption is complete , but you may want to wait. Then , you can apply for the number using your child's new name. If you want to claim your child for tax purposes while the adoption is still pending , contact the Internal Revenue Service for Form W-7A, Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions. For more information, see Social Security Numbers For Children (Publication No. 05-10023).  What original documents do I need?  Citizenship We can accept only certain documents as proof of U.S. citizenship. These include a U.S. passport, Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 or Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561. Foreign - born adopted children residing permanently in the United States may automatically acquire U.S. citizenship when they meet certain requirements. We may accept the following as evidence of U.S. citizenship : Certificate of Citizenship N-560/N-561 ; Certificate of Naturalization N-550/N-570 ; Machine Readable Immigrant Visa MRIV showing a category code of IR3 or IH3 ; or U.S. passport. Age You must present your child's foreign birth certificate if you have it or can get it within 10 days. If not , we will consider other documents such as your child's passport or a document issued by the Department of Homeland Security DHS as evidence of your child's age. Anyone age 12 or older requesting an original Social Security number must appear in person for an interview. We will ask for evidence to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. Here are examples of documents you can use to prove a Social Security number was never assigned : If your child lived outside the United States for an extended period , a current or previous passport , school and/or employment records , and any other record that would show long - term residence outside the United States could be used to show that your child does not have a Social Security number. If your child has lived in the United States and is applying for an original Social Security number , we may ask you for information about the schools your child attended or we may ask you to provide copies of tax records that would show that your child was never assigned a Social Security number. Identity Your child : We can accept only certain documents as proof of your child's identity. An acceptable document must show your child's name, identifying information i.e., age, date of birth, or parents' names and preferably a recent photograph. We generally can accept a non - photo identity document if it has enough information to identify the child such as the child's name and age, date of birth or parents' names. We prefer to see the child's U.S. passport. If that document is not available , we may accept the child's : State - issued non - driver's identification card ; Adoption decree ; Doctor, clinic or hospital record ; Religious record ; School daycare center record ; or School identification card. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; or U.S. military identification card. Note We may use one document for two purposes. For example , we may use your U.S. passport as proof of both citizenship and identity. However , you must provide at least two separate documents. 
title : Appeal A Decision | Social Security Administration#1    Document :  Appeal A Decision  If you were recently denied Social Security benefits or Supplemental Security Income SSI , you may request an appeal. Generally , you have 60 days after you receive the notice of our decision to ask for any type of appeal. There are four levels of appeal : Reconsideration , Hearing by an administrative law judge , Review by the Appeals Council , and Federal Court review Please see the bottom of page for information on the Federal Court Review Process. You can request an appeal online for a reconsideration, a hearing by an administrative law judge, and a review by the Appeals Council, even if you live outside of the United States. When we made the first determination on your claim , we sent you a letter explaining our determination. This letter contains guidance on what level of appeal you should select. To learn more about each appeal level , visit Information About Social Security's Hearings and Appeals Process.  Request a Reconsideration Online for a Medical Determination  If your disability claim was recently denied for medical reasons , you can request an appeal online. A reconsideration is a complete review of your claim by someone who did not take part in the first determination. We will look at all the evidence submitted used in the original determination, plus any new evidence. Request Medical ReconsiderationContinue Request for Medical Reconsideration You Started  Request a Reconsideration Online for a Non-Medical Determination  If you received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements, you can request a non - medical appeal online. Request Non - Medical Reconsideration  Check the Status of Your Reconsideration  Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI Reconsideration using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account  Request a Hearing for a Medical Determination Online  A hearing is conducted by an administrative law judge who had no part in the original determination or the reconsideration of your case. The hearing is usually held within 75 miles of your home. If you disagree with the determination we made at the reconsideration level , you may request a hearing online. You Started Request Medical HearingContinue Medical Hearing Request  Request a Hearing for a Non-Medical Determination Online  If you requested a reconsideration and received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied benefits for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements , you can request a non - medical hearing online. Request Non - Medical Hearing  Check the Status of Your Hearing  Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI hearing using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account  Request an Appeals Council review of a decision or dismissal made by an administrative law judge  The Appeals Council looks at all requests for review , but it may deny a request if it believes the hearing decision was supported and in accordance with social security law and regulations. If the Appeals Council decides to review your case , it will either decide your case itself or return it to an administrative law judge for further review. If you disagree with the hearing decision , you may request a review by Social Security s Appeals Council online. Request Appeals Council Review If you disagree with the Appeals Council's decision, or if the Appeals Council decides not to review your case , you can file a civil suit in a federal district court. This is the last level of the appeals process. Currently , this process is not available online. To learn more about this process , visit Federal Court Review Process. You can also file an appeal by calling our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 or contacting your local Social Security office. 
title : Appeal A Decision | Social Security Administration#2    Document : If you were recently denied Social Security benefits or Supplemental Security Income SSI , you may request an appeal. Generally , you have 60 days after you receive the notice of our decision to ask for any type of appeal. There are four levels of appeal : Reconsideration , Hearing by an administrative law judge , Review by the Appeals Council , and Federal Court review Please see the bottom of page for information on the Federal Court Review Process. You can request an appeal online for a reconsideration, a hearing by an administrative law judge, and a review by the Appeals Council, even if you live outside of the United States. When we made the first determination on your claim , we sent you a letter explaining our determination. This letter contains guidance on what level of appeal you should select. To learn more about each appeal level , visit Information About Social Security's Hearings and Appeals Process.  Request a Reconsideration Online for a Medical Determination  If your disability claim was recently denied for medical reasons , you can request an appeal online. A reconsideration is a complete review of your claim by someone who did not take part in the first determination. We will look at all the evidence submitted used in the original determination, plus any new evidence. Request Medical ReconsiderationContinue Request for Medical Reconsideration You Started  Request a Reconsideration Online for a Non-Medical Determination  If you received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements, you can request a non - medical appeal online. Request Non - Medical Reconsideration  Check the Status of Your Reconsideration  Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI Reconsideration using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account  Request a Hearing for a Medical Determination Online  A hearing is conducted by an administrative law judge who had no part in the original determination or the reconsideration of your case. The hearing is usually held within 75 miles of your home. If you disagree with the determination we made at the reconsideration level , you may request a hearing online. You Started Request Medical HearingContinue Medical Hearing Request  Request a Hearing for a Non-Medical Determination Online  If you requested a reconsideration and received a non - medical determination letter from us that you disagree with or you were denied benefits for a reason that is not disability related for example: income, resources, overpayments, living arrangements , you can request a non - medical hearing online. Request Non - Medical Hearing  Check the Status of Your Hearing  Whether you applied online, by phone, or in an office , you can check the status of your disability and SSI hearing using your personal my Social Security account. A my Social Security account is an easy, convenient, and secure way to do business with us. If you don t have one , you can create one today. Sign In or Create Account  Request an Appeals Council review of a decision or dismissal made by an administrative law judge  The Appeals Council looks at all requests for review , but it may deny a request if it believes the hearing decision was supported and in accordance with social security law and regulations. If the Appeals Council decides to review your case , it will either decide your case itself or return it to an administrative law judge for further review. If you disagree with the hearing decision , you may request a review by Social Security s Appeals Council online. Request Appeals Council Review If you disagree with the Appeals Council's decision, or if the Appeals Council decides not to review your case , you can file a civil suit in a federal district court. This is the last level of the appeals process. Currently , this process is not available online. To learn more about this process , visit Federal Court Review Process. You can also file an appeal by calling our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 or contacting your local Social Security office. 
title : Learn what documents you will need to get a Social Security Card | Social Security Administration#6    Document :  Corrected Card for a Noncitizen Child  If you legally change your child's name because of adoption, court order or any other reason , you need to tell Social Security. If your child is working , also tell your child's employer. If you do not tell us when your child's name changes , it may : Delay your tax refund or your child's refund ; and Prevent your child's wages from being posted correctly to your child's Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your child's future Social Security benefits. Important You must present original documents or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept photocopies or notarized copies. All documents must be current not expired. We cannot accept a receipt showing you applied for the document.  What original documents do I need?  Immigration Status To prove your child's U.S. immigration status , you must show us your child's current U.S. immigration document, such as : Form I-551 Lawful Permanent Resident Card, Machine Readable Immigrant Visa ; I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit ; or I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport. If your child is an F-1 or M-1 student , we must see your child's I-20 Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status. If your child is a J-1 or J-2 exchange visitor , you must see your child's DS-2019 Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. Work Eligibility In general , only noncitizens who have permission to work from DHS can apply for a Social Security number. If you are a foreign worker , we only need to see an I-94 Arrival / Departure Record or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport, showing a class of admission permitting work. Some foreign workers must show their I-766 Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit from DHS. If you submit evidence of lawful work - authorized status for your child along with evidence of name change , we can issue your child a corrected card with his or her new name. However , if we assigned your child a Social Security number for non - work purposes , special rules apply. If your child is not authorized to work by DHS, we will change your child's name on our records , but we cannot issue a corrected card. Your child cannot use a Social Security number assigned for non - work purposes to work. If your child does use it to work , we will inform DHS. Student : If you are an F-1 student and eligible to work on campus , you must provide a letter from your designated school official that : Identifies you ; Confirms your current school status ; and Identifies your employer and the type of work you are, or will be, doing. We also need to see evidence of that employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter from your employer. Your supervisor must sign and date the letter. The letter must describe : Your job; Your employment start date ; The number of hours you are, or will be, working ; and Your supervisor's name and telephone number. If you are an F-1 student authorized to work in curricular practical training CPT , you must provide us your Form I-20 with the employment page completed and signed by your designated school official. If you are an F-1 student and have a work permit I-766 from DHS , you must present it. If you are a J-1 student, student intern or international visitor , you must provide a letter from your sponsor. The letter should be on sponsor letterhead with an original signature that authorizes your employment. Name Change If you need to change the name on your child's Social Security record , you must show us proof of your child's legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove your child's legal name change include : Final adoption decree with the new name ; Court order approving the name change. If the document you provide as evidence of your child's legal name change does not give us enough information to identify your child in our records or if you changed your child's name more than four years ago , you must show us an identity document in your child's prior name as shown in our records. We will accept an identity document in your child's old name that has expired. If you do not have an identity document in your child's prior name , we may accept an unexpired identity document in your child's new name, as long as we can properly establish your child's identity in our records. Identity Your child : Social Security will ask to see your child's current U.S. immigration document from DHS. Acceptable immigration documents include your child's : I-551 Permanent Resident Card ; I-94 Arrival / Departure Record with unexpired foreign passport or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. You : We also must see proof of your identity. An acceptable document must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph. For example , as proof of identity Social Security must see your : U.S. driver's license ; State - issued non - driver identification card ; or U.S. passport. If you do not have one of these specific documents or you cannot get a replacement for one of them within 10 days , we will ask to see other documents. Any documents submitted, including the following, must be current not expired and show your name, identifying information date of birth or age and preferably a recent photograph : Employee identification card ; School identification card ; Health insurance card not a Medicare card ; U.S. military identification card ; or Doctor , clinic or hospital record. If you are not a U.S. citizen , Social Security will ask to see your current U.S. immigration document from DHS. Acceptable immigration documents include your : Form I-551 includes machine - readable immigrant visa with unexpired foreign passport ; I-94 or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport ; or I-766 Employment Authorization Document , EAD, work permit from DHS. Note If we issue your child a new card , it will have the same number as your child's previous card, but will show a new name. We will mail your child's card as soon as we have all of your child's information and have verified your child's immigration documents. 
title : Benefits Planner: Retirement | You Can Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare | Social Security Administration#1    Document :  Benefits Planner: Retirement  You Can Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare  Apply Online The easiest and quickest way to apply for retirement, spouse's, ex - spouse's, or Medicare benefits is to apply online. Apply By Phone Call us at If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY Apply In Person Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also - Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. You must be at least 61 years and 9 months old to apply for retirement benefits. If you are already age 62 , you may be able to start your benefits in the month you apply. You should apply for benefits no more than four months before the date you want your benefits to start. Benefits are paid the month after they are due. If your benefits start in April, you will receive your first benefit payment in May. If you are not getting Social Security and you are not ready to retire , you should still use our online retirement benefit application to sign up for just Medicare three months before your 65th birthday.  When You Apply  Please be ready to supply the information we need to approve your application for these benefits : You Need To Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare - Form SSA-1 Information You Need to Apply for Spouse's or Divorced Spouse's Benefits Information - Form SSA-2 You Need To Apply for Child's Benefits - Form SSA-4 Information We may ask you to provide certain documents to show that you are eligible and help us decide how much your benefits should be. If you do not have a birth certificate , you may request one from the state where you were born. For details on where to write in your state , check. Also , bring along your bank information so you can sign up for Direct Deposit. If you do not have a bank account you can sign up for the Direct Express card program. With Direct Express , deposits from federal payments are made directly to the card.  Other Retirement Planning Websites  Benefit Eligibility Screening Tool BEST to help identify other Social Security programs for which you may be eligible. The Employee Benefit Research Institute , Ballpark E$timator this calculator to get a basic idea of how much you need to save before you retire. Department of Labor DOL Publications And Reports page links to publications and consumer information on health benefits and retirement planning. Retirement Savings Toolkit page links to English and Spanish publications about retirement savings. " Planning for Retirement / Retiring" MyMoney.gov page provides links to a variety of retirement planning tools, including a Medicare Eligibility Tool. Retirement Resources USA.gov site provides a variety of financial planning tools, including a Federal Employees Retirement Calculator. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) (If you have or had a job with a defined benefit pension, the PBGC may be protecting your pension. If your pension plan was terminated, you may be able to use the PBGC's Find an Unclaimed Pension tool to find out if you have unclaimed benefits.) 
title : Apply for Retirement Benefits | SSA#1    Document :  Apply for Retirement Benefits  Starting your Social Security retirement benefits is a major step on your retirement journey. This page will guide you through the process of applying for retirement benefits when you re ready to take that step. Our online application is a convenient way to apply on your own schedule, without an appointment. You can also apply by phone or by appointment at a Social Security office.  Ready To Retire?  Start your application today Apply Online For Retirement Benefits Jump to a topic on this page : Before You Apply / How To Apply / Once You've Applied  Before You Apply  Before you apply , take time to review the basics, understand the process, and gather the documents you ll need to complete an application.  Review Retirement Benefits Basics  You can start your retirement benefits as early as age 62 or as late as age 70. If you re preparing to apply for retirement benefits, knowing when you re eligible to apply and how the system works are the first steps in choosing what age is right for you. Before you submit an application , go to our Learn About Retirement Benefits page to understand : How you qualify for Social Security benefits. How your earnings and age can affect your benefits. What you should consider in deciding when to start receiving benefits. Retirement benefits for spouses and family members.  Understand The Application Process  The retirement benefits application process follows these general steps, whether you apply online, by phone, or in person : Gather the information and documents you need to apply. Complete and submit your application. We review your application and contact you if we need more information. We mail you a decision letter. You start receiving your retirement benefits.  How Early Can I Apply?  Apply four months before you want your Social Security retirement benefits to start. If you want your benefits to start at age 62 , you can apply at age 61 and eight months.  Ready To Start Medicare?  If you ll turn 65 within three months, you can use our online application to apply for Medicare and Social Security retirement benefits at the same time , or you can use it to apply for just Medicare. To learn more about your Medicare options , review our section on Medicare Benefits.  Applying As A Spouse Or Family Member  You may be able to receive retirement benefits on your spouse or former spouse s record. Likewise , your spouse or family member may be able to receive benefits on your record if they qualify. Learn more about Benefits For Your Family.  Retirement Benefits For Survivors  If you are the spouse, divorced spouse, family member, or parent of a worker who has died and you are planning to apply for retirement benefits , review our Survivors Benefits page to see how Social Security survivor benefits relate to your situation.  Gather Information You Need to Apply  Before applying , be ready to provide your Social Security number and information about : Dates of current and previous marriages , and where you were married. U.S. military service dates and branches. Employer names and dates for the past two years. Self - employment income and type of business. Bank information to set up your direct deposit. Information on family members who may be eligible to receive benefits on your record. We will ask for certain documents we need to review and process your application. These documents may include : Your original birth certificate or other proof of your age. This must be the original document or a certified copy from the issuing agency. Proof of U.S. citizenship if you were not born in the U.S. and have not submitted proof for an earlier Medicare or Social Security claim. We must see the original document or copies certified by the agency that issued them. We cannot accept expired, notarized, or photocopied documents. A copy of your W-2 tax form and/or self - employment tax return from last year. A photocopy is acceptable. A copy of your U.S. military service papers if you served before 1968. A photocopy is acceptable. As you prepare to apply for benefits , first gather the documents listed on our Checklist for Online Medicare, Retirement & Spouses Application. Instructions on how to submit your documents will appear at the end of the online application. If applying by phone , gather the information above. We will walk you through the process on the phone. If applying in person , ask your local Social Security office what you need to bring when you call to schedule your appointment. They can help you if you don t have all your documents right now.  Additional Information  Estimate Your Retirement Benefits You Need To Apply For Retirement Benefits Or Medicare Information Benefits For Your Family  FAQs  How do I sign up for Medicare?  How To Apply  Applying online is the easiest way to complete your application at a time that works for you, without a trip to the Social Security office. You can also apply by phone or at a Social Security office. This section will tell you about the different options.  Apply Online  Follow these steps to apply online : To start your application , go to our Apply for Benefits page, read and agree to the Terms of Service. Click Next. On that page , review the Getting Ready section to make sure you have the information you need to apply. Select Start A New Application. We will ask a few questions about who is filling out the application. You will then sign into your my Social Security account or you will be prompted to create one. Complete the application. Watch our video, Welcome To Our Online Retirement / Medicare Application, for an overview of the process.  Tips For Using The Online Application  We ve worked hard to make applying online as simple as possible while also keeping your information safe. For security reasons , the online application gives you a warning if you leave it open and don t do anything for 25 minutes. You can choose to extend your time on the page if you get this warning. However , after the third warning , you must move to another page or your information will not be saved. Here are more tips for using the online application : If you get stuck on a question , you can skip to the next question and come back later. You can save your application to finish another time if needed. Next time you sign in , go to Return to a Saved Application. You are not allowed to use periods, commas, or other special characters for some answers, including addresses. If you get a message about this , go back and enter the information without periods or other characters. Start your application now.  Signing The Online Application  You ll have a chance to review your answers and make changes, if needed. Once you ve filled everything out , we ll ask you to confirm that your answers are true to the best of your knowledge. You can be held liable for intentionally providing false or misleading information. The last step is to sign the online application by clicking Submit Now. You can check the status of your submitted application using a confirmation number we provide.  Helping Someone Else Apply Online  You may help someone else fill out their application , but you are not allowed to sign it for them. Only the person applying for benefits can legally sign the application. If they are not able to sign online , we will mail them a copy to sign. Read more about Helping Someone Apply Online.  Apply With Your Local Office  You can do most of your business with Social Security online. If you cannot use these online services , your local Social Security office can help you apply. Although our offices are closed to the public , employees from those offices are assisting people by telephone. You can find the phone number for your local office by using our Field Office Locator and looking under Social Security Office Information. The toll - free Office number is your local office.  Apply By Phone  Call 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. , Monday through Friday , to apply by phone.  If You Do Not Live In The U.S. Or One Of Its Territories  Contact the Federal Benefits Unit for your country of residence if you live outside the U.S. or a U.S. territory and wish to apply for retirement benefits.  Additional Information  Our Online Benefits Application What Is An Account? Online Services  FAQs  How do I return to an online application for retirement benefits that I already started but did not finish?  Once You've Applied  Once we receive your application , we ll review it and contact you if we have any questions. We might request additional documents from you before we can process your application.  Look For Our Response  You ll receive a letter in the mail with our decision. If you included information about other family members when you applied , we ll let you know if they may be able to receive benefits from your application.  Check The Status  You can check the status of your application online using your personal my Social Security account. If you are unable to check your status online , you can call us 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.  Appeal A Decision  You have a right to appeal any decision we make about whether you re entitled to benefits. You must request an appeal in writing within 60 days of receiving our decision. There are four levels of appeal : Reconsideration by Social Security staff. A hearing before an administrative law judge. A review by Social Security s Appeals Council. A review by the federal courts. To learn more , visit Appeal A Decision.  Withdraw Your Application  Sometimes , life changes occur after you submit your application. You have up to 12 months to withdraw your application, if you change your mind. You will be required to repay any benefits you ve already received. Learn more about Withdrawing Your Social Security Retirement Application.  Additional Information  Get Your Social Security Benefit Verification Letter Online Your Right To Question The Decision Made On Your Claim  FAQs  How do I check the status of a pending application for benefits? 
title : Disability Benefits | Social Security Administration#1    Document :  Disability Benefits  Learn about Disability Benefits Social Security pays disability benefits to people who can't work because they have a medical condition that's expected to last at least one year or result in death. Find out if you qualify and how Social Security can help you. USE OUR DISABILITY PLANNER Already Receiving Benefits If you receive Social Security disability benefits , you can get information and services for managing your benefits online. MANAGE YOUR BENEFITS If you prefer to complete your application in a language other than English , the online application will give you the option to schedule an appointment to apply for benefits in your preferred language. The online application is currently only available in English. Apply for DisabilityReturn to a Saved ApplicationCheck Application or Appeal Status  Who can apply for adult disability benefits online?  You can use the online application to apply for disability benefits if you : Are age 18 or older ; Are not currently receiving benefits on your own Social Security record ; Are unable to work because of a medical condition that is expected to last at least 12 months or result in death ; and Have not been denied disability benefits in the last 60 days. If your application was recently denied , our Internet Appeal application is a starting point to request a review of the determination we made. You can now also file for Supplemental Security Income SSI online but only if you meet certain requirements. You are eligible to file online for SSI if you : Are between the ages of 18 and 65 ; Have never been married ; Aren t blind ; Are a U.S. citizen residing in one of the fifty states, District of Columbia, or the Northern Mariana Islands ; Haven t applied for or received SSI benefits in the past ; and Are applying for Social Security Disability Insurance at the same time as your SSI claim. Find out if you are eligible to receive Social Security Disability Benefits. Once you finish the online process , a Social Security representative will contact you by telephone or by mail for any additional information needed for the applications. You can also schedule an appointment with a local Social Security office to file an application. Call 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. , Monday through Friday or contact your local Social Security office.  How do I apply for benefits?  Here is what you need to do to apply for benefits online : Print and review the Adult Disability ChecklistIt will help you gather the information you need to complete the application. Complete the Disability Benefit Application.  What information do I need to apply for benefits?  We suggest that you have the following information at hand. It will make completing the application much easier.  Information About You  Your date and place of birth and Social Security number The name , Social Security number and date of birth or age of your current spouse and any former spouse. You should also know the dates and places of marriage and dates of divorce or death if appropriate Names and dates of birth of your minor children Your bank or other financial institution's Routing Transit Number [more info] and the account number , if you want the benefits electronically deposited Information About Your Medical Condition Name, address and phone number of someone we can contact who knows about your medical conditions and can help with your application Detailed information about your medical illnesses, injuries or conditions : Names, addresses, phone numbers, patient ID numbers and dates of treatment for all doctors, hospitals and clinics ; Names of medicines you are taking and who prescribed them ; and Names and dates of medical tests you have had and who sent you for them.  Information About Your Work  The amount of money earned last year and this year The name and address of your employer for this year and last year A copy of your The beginning and ending dates of any active U.S. military service you had before 1968 A list of the jobs up to 5 that you had in the 15 years before you became unable to work and the dates you worked at those jobs Information about any workers' compensation, black lung, and/or similar benefits you filed, or intend to file for. These benefits can : Be temporary or permanent in nature ; Include annuities and lump sum payments that you received in the past ; Be paid by your employer or your employer's insurance carrier, private agencies, or Federal, State or other government or public agencies ; and Be referred to as : Workers' Compensation ; Black Lung Benefits ; Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation ; Civil Service Disability Retirement ; Federal Employees' Retirement ; Federal Employees' Compensation ; State or local government disability insurance benefits ; or Disability benefits from the military This includes military retirement pensions based on disability but not Veterans' Administration VA benefits.  What documents do I need to provide?  We may ask you to provide documents to show that you are eligible, such as : Birth certificate or other proof of birth ; Proof of U.S. citizenship or lawful alien status if you were not born in the United States [more Info]; U.S. military discharge paper if you had military service before 1968 ; W-2 forms and/or self - employment tax returns for last year ; Medical evidence already in your possession [more info]. This includes medical records, doctors' reports, and recent test results ; and Award letters, pay stubs, settlement agreements or other proof of any temporary or permanent workers' compensation - type benefits you received [more info]. We accept photocopies of W-2 forms, self - employment tax returns or medical documents , but we must see the original of most other documents, such as your birth certificate. We will return them to you. Do not delay applying for benefits because you do not have all the documents. We will help you get them.  Mailing Your Documents  If you mail any documents to us , you must include the Social Security number so that we can match them with the correct application. Do not write anything on the original documents. Please write the Social Security number on a separate sheet of paper and include it in the mailing envelope along with the documents. If you do not want to mail these documents , you may bring them to a Social Security office. Do not mail foreign birth records or any documents from the Department of Homeland Security DHS, formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service INS, especially those you are required to keep with you at all times. These documents are extremely difficult, time - consuming and expensive to replace if lost. Some cannot be replaced. Instead , bring them to a Social Security office where we will examine them and return them to you.  What are the advantages of applying using our online disability application process?  Our online disability application process offers several advantages. You can: Start your disability claim immediately. There is no need to wait for an appointment. Apply from the convenience of your own home or on any computer. Stop and return to your saved application before submission. Avoid trips to a Social Security office. Complete the process online even if you live outside the United States.  What happens after I apply?  After we receive your online application , we will : Provide confirmation of your application- either electronically or by mail. Review the application. Contact you by telephone or by mail if we need more information or documentation. Inform you if other family members may be able to receive benefits on your record, or if you may be able to receive benefits on another person s record, such as your spouse or your parent. Process your application. Mail our decision to you.  What other ways can I apply?  You can also apply : By phone - Call us at 1 - 800 - 772 - 1213 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday. If you are deaf or hard of hearing , you can call us at TTY 1 - 800 - 325 - 0778. In person - Visit your local Social Security office. Call first to make an appointment. If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. 
title : VR&E Independent Living Track | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  VR&E Independent Living track  If your service - connected disability limits your ability to perform activities of daily living like bathing, dressing, accessing the community, and interacting with others and you can t return to work right away , you may qualify for independent living services through the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VR&E Independent Living track. You may also receive these services as you work to find a job if that s a goal you and your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor VRC have created. In both cases , your VRC can help you restore your daily - living activities. Find out if you may be eligible for services to help you live as independently as possible.  Can I get independent living services through VR&E?  You may be eligible for independent living services if you re a service member or Veteran with a service - connected disability who is eligible for VR&E benefits, and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true : You have a serious employment handicap SEH , and Your disabilities prevent you from looking for or returning to work , and You re in need of services to live as independently as possible Please note: Having an employment handicap means your service - connected disability limits your ability to prepare for, obtain, and maintain suitable employment a job that doesn t make your disability worse, is stable, and matches your abilities, aptitudes, and interests.  What kind of benefits can I get?  Depending on your needs , services may include : to identify your needs and goals Evaluation and counseling Home consultations with specialists Referral to support resources Guidance to help you understand if you re eligible for our adaptive - housing programs. These programs can help you make changes to your home like widening doorways or adding ramps so you can live more independently. Learn more about adaptive housing grants These services generally last up to 24 months. In some cases , you may be able to use services for longer than this.  How do I get these benefits?  First , you ll need to apply for VR&E benefits. Then , you ll work with your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor VRC.  If you have your VA disability rating, follow these steps to apply:  Sign in to your eBenefits account. Click Additional Benefits on your dashboard. Click Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program. Apply for the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program. If you re eligible , we ll invite you to an orientation session at your nearest VA regional benefit office. If you re eligible , a VRC will work with you to determine the severity of your service - connected disability, if you re ready to work, and if you ll benefit from independent living services. Your VRC will help you create a personalized, written independent living plan that meets your needs.  Ready to apply?  Go to eBenefits to apply Find out how to apply if you haven t yet received a disability rating 
title : VA Individual Unemployability If You Can't Work | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  VA Individual Unemployability if you can't work  If you can t work because of a disability related to your service in the military a service - connected disability , you may qualify for what s called Individual Unemployability. This means you may be able to get disability compensation or benefits at the same level as a Veteran who has a 100% disability rating.  Can I get disability benefits from VA?  You may be able to get disability benefits if you meet both of the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You have at least 1 service - connected disability rated at 60% or more disabling, or 2 or more service - connected disabilities with at least 1 rated at 40% or more disabling and a combined rating of 70% or more and You can t hold down a steady job that supports you financially known as substantially gainful employment because of your service - connected disability. Odd jobs marginal employment don t count. Note: In certain cases for example , if you need to be in the hospital often you may qualify at a lower disability rating.  Who s covered?  Veterans  What kind of benefits can I get?  Health care Compensation payments  How do I get these benefits?  You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation. When you file , you ll have to provide evidence supporting documents like a doctor s report or medical test results showing that your disability prevents you from holding down a steady job. We ll also review your work and education history. Example : A Veteran has a service - connected heart condition and a 60% disability rating. She was still able to work until last year when she began to get chest pain when doing anything physical, like walking or lifting boxes. Her doctor told her to retire as soon as possible. She filed a claim for more disability compensation. We reviewed her work and education history and agreed that she was individually unemployable because of her service - connected disability. So we increased her disability compensation to the same rate as a 100% disabled Veteran. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation When you file a disability claim , you ll also need to fill out these additional forms for Individual Unemployability benefits : A Veteran s Application for Increased Compensation Based on Unemployability VA Form 21 - 8940 Download VA Form 21 - 8940 PDF and A Request for Employment Information in Connection with Claim for Disability Benefits VA Form 21 - 4192 Download VA Form 21 - 4192 PDF 
title : Work Study | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Work study  Find out how our Veterans work - study program can help you earn money while you re enrolled in a college, a vocational school, or professional training program.  Can I take part in the Veterans work-study program?  You can take part in our work - study program if you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Are enrolled at least three - quarter time in a college degree, vocational, or professional program , and Have found an open job either at a nearby VA facility or in a VA - related role at your school , and Can finish the work - study contract while you still qualify for education benefits , and Are using an approved VA education benefits program to pay for your education or training Approved VA education benefits programs include : Post-9/11 GI Bill for Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill for family members using transferred benefits Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty MGIB - AD Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve MGIB - SR Veterans Educational Assistance Program VEAP Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance (DEA) (Note: Dependents who qualify under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35 may use work study only while enrolled at a school in one of the 50 states.) National Call to Service Vocational rehabilitation and employment  What kind of benefits can I get?  You can get paid to work a part - time job while you study.  How do I get these benefits?  You ll need to apply for the work - study program by filling out an Application for Work - Study Allowance VA Form 22 - 8691. Download VA Form 22 - 8691 PDF If you have any questions about the program , contact the VA regional processing office that handles your claim. Contact your VA regional processing office If you have questions about other sources of financial assistance , contact your school s financial aid office.  What kind of job can I get?  You can get a job that s related to VA work, meets your interests, and fills a need. For example , you can work for a : VA facility Department of Defense , Coast Guard , that oversees MGIB - SR or REAP or National Guard location State Veterans agency to help Veterans get Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment benefits Center of Excellence for Veteran Student Success to support the academic, financial, physical, and social needs of Veteran students that we run together with a college, university, or other institution of higher learning Cooperative program College , university , or other institution of higher learning in any Veteran - related role. For example , you could help Veteran students with general questions about Veteran benefits, process documents for Veterans, or maintain and organize Veteran - related files.  How much will I earn?  You ll earn an hourly wage that s the same as the federal minimum wage or your state minimum wage, whichever is greater. If your school usually pays students more for the job you re doing , they may pay you the difference between the amount we pay and their usual rate.  How will I get paid?  You may elect to be paid in advance for 40% of the hours in your work - study agreement, or for 50 hours, whichever is fewer. After you ve worked the hours covered by your first payment , we ll pay you each time you finish 50 hours of service or every other week, whichever comes first.  When and how much can I work?  You can work during or between enrollment periods. You can t work more hours total than 25 times the number of weeks in your enrollment period. For example : If you re enrolled for a semester that lasts for 15 weeks , you can work up to 375 hours for that enrollment period. 
title : How To Apply For The GI Bill | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  How to apply for the GI Bill and related benefits  Find out how to apply for the GI Bill and other VA education benefits as a Veteran, service member, or qualified family member.  How do I prepare before starting my application?  Find out if you re eligible for VA education benefits Gather the documents and information listed below that you ll need to apply for education benefits. See what benefits you ll get at the school you want to attend. Use the GI Bill Comparison Tool Note: To apply for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment also called Chapter 31 or educational and career counseling also called Chapter 36 benefits and services , you ll need to use a different application. Find out how to apply for Vocational Rehab and Employment Learn more about Educational and Career Counseling  What documents and information do I need to apply?  Social Security number Bank account direct deposit information Education and military history you want to attend or are attending now Basic information about the school or training facility  You can also apply:  By mail  Call 888-GI - BILL-1 888 - 442 - 4551 , Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. ET , to request that we send the application to you. Fill it out and mail it to the VA regional claims processing office that s in the same location as your school. See a list of regional claims processing offices  In person  Go to a VA regional benefit office and have a VA employee help you. Find a VA regional benefit office near you Work with your school s certifying official. This person is usually in the Registrar or Financial Aid office at the school.  With the help of a trained professional  You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for education benefits. Get help filing your claim  What happens after I apply?  Find out what happens after you apply You can t make changes to your application , but if you have questions about VA education benefits, please call 888-GI - BILL-1 888 - 442 - 4551, Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. ET. If we ve asked you for documents , please upload them through the GI Bill website. Go to the GI Bill website  How long does it take VA to make a decision?  
title : Increased Disability Rating For Time In A Hospital | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Increased disability rating for time in a hospital  Did you spend time in a VA hospital or a VA - approved hospital for a disability related to your military service called a service - connected disability? If you did , you may be able to get added disability compensation or benefits with a temporary 100% disability rating for the time you spent in the hospital. Find out if you can get this benefit.  Can I get disability benefits from VA?  You may be able to get disability benefits if one of the situations below describes your experience. One of these must be true : You spent more than 21 days in a VA hospital or other approved hospital for a service - connected disability , or You were under hospital observation for more than 21 days at our expense for a service - connected disability  Who s covered?  Veterans  What kind of disability benefits can I get?  Health care Increased compensation payments for the time you spent in the hospital  How do I get these benefits?  You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation Note: If you weren t in a VA hospital , when filing your claim you ll need to give us your hospital discharge summary showing the length and cause of your hospital stay. Example : A Veteran with a 40% service - connected disability rating for diabetes had to stay in a VA hospital after going into a diabetic coma. He needed to stay in the hospital for 25 days because of the coma and related infections. We raised his rating to 100% during his hospital stay. After he got out of the hospital , his disability rating went back to 40 %. 
title : VR&E Reemployment Track | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  VR&E Reemployment track  As a Veteran , you re protected under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act USERRA. This means you can t be disadvantaged in your civilian career because of your service. If you re a Veteran with a service - connected disability , the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VR&E Reemployment track can help your employer accommodate your needs. Your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor VRC can provide a full range of rehabilitation services, and can refer you directly to the Department of Labor to begin the process. Find out how we can help you return to your former job and support your employer in meeting your needs.  Can I get help returning to my former job through VR&E?  You may be eligible for help if you re a Veteran with a service - connected disability , and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Have an employment barrier or handicap , and Are enrolled in Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VR&E , and Would like to return to your former job Note: Having an employment handicap means your service - connected disability limits your ability to prepare for, obtain, and maintain suitable employment a job that doesn t make your disability worse, is stable, and matches your abilities, aptitudes, and interests.  What kind of benefits can I get?  Help with the process of returning to the job you held before you deployed.  How do I get these benefits?  First , you ll need to apply for VR&E benefits. Then , you ll work with your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor VRC.  If you have your VA disability rating, follow these steps to apply:  Sign in to your eBenefits account. Click Additional Benefits on your dashboard. Choose Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program. Apply for the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program. If you re eligible , we ll invite you to an orientation session at your nearest VA regional benefit office.  Ready to apply?  Go to eBenefits to apply Find out how to apply if you haven t yet received a disability rating  Get more information  We offer opportunities to get training and practical hands - on work experience at the same time through programs like : The VR&E Special Employer Incentives SEI program for eligible Veterans who face challenges getting a job. Download the SEI program fact sheet PDF The VR&E Non - Paid Work Experience NPWE program for eligible Veterans and service members who have an established career goal and learn easily in a hands - on environment or are having trouble getting a job due to lack of work experience. Download the NPWE program fact sheet PDF Watch this video to learn more about the NPWE program We also offer : VR&E employment coordinators located at our VA regional offices and many of our out - based locations who can help you access the employment services available to you. Find an employment coordinator near you Counselors to help you transition from military to college life. Learn about VetSuccess on Campus Links to more resources outside VA that can help you in your job search. See our list of external resources If you re participating in a VR&E employment program and lost your housing because of a natural or other disaster , you may qualify for 2 more months of the Employment Adjustment Allowance. Contact your VR&E counselor for more information 
title : Ionizing Radiation Exposure | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Ionizing radiation exposure  Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses including some cancers believed to be caused by contact with radiation during military service.  Can I get disability benefits from VA?  You may be able to get disability benefits if you didn t receive a dishonorable discharge and you meet the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You have an illness that s on our list of illnesses believed to be caused by radiation or that doctors say may be caused by radiation , and Your illness started within a certain period of time as shown along with the list of illnesses See the list of radiation - related illnesses And you must have had contact with ionizing radiation in one of these ways while serving in the military. You: Were part of atmospheric nuclear weapons testing , or Served in the postwar occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki , or Were a prisoner of war POW in Japan , or Worked as an x - ray technician, in a reactor plant, or in nuclear medicine or radiography while on active duty or during active or inactive duty for training in the Reserves, or Did tasks like those of a Department of Energy (DOE) employee that make them a member of the Special Exposure Cohort (See 42 U.S.C. 7384L(14)) You may also qualify for disability benefits if you served in at least one of the below locations and capacities. You were: Part of underground nuclear weapons testing at Amchitka Island, Alaska, or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Paducah, Kentucky , or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Portsmouth, Ohio , or Assigned to a gaseous diffusion plant at Area K-25 at Oak Ridge, Tennessee  Who s covered?  Veterans  What kind of disability benefits can I get?  Health care Compensation payments  How do I get these benefits?  You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation and provide the evidence supporting documents listed below : Medical records showing that you ve been diagnosed with one of the illnesses on our list of those believed to be caused by radiation or that your doctor states may be caused by radiation exposure , and Service records showing that you were part of one of the radiation risk activities described above Note: When you file your claim , we ll ask the military branch that you served with or the Defense Threat Reduction Agency to give us a range of how much radiation they think you may have come into contact with. We ll use the highest level of the range they report to decide on your benefits. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation 
title : Exposure Through Project 112 Or Project SHAD | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Exposure through Project 112 or Project SHAD  If you were a part of chemical and biological warfare testing through Project 112 or Project Shipboard Hazard and Defense SHAD , you may be at risk for certain illnesses. The Department of Defense s Deseret Test Center in Fort Douglas, Utah, conducted this testing, which took place aboard ships and on land in various locations from 1962 to 1974. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits.  Can I get disability benefits from VA?  You may be able to get disability benefits if you meet both of the requirements listed below. Both of these must be true : You were part of Projects 112 or SHAD testing from 1962 to 1974 , and You have an illness believed to be caused by the testing  Who s covered?  Veterans Qualified survivors  What kind of disability benefits can I get?  Health care Compensation payments  How do I get these benefits?  You ll need to file a claim for disability compensation. You can call the VA Special Issues Helpline at 800 - 749 - 8387. Or you can file a claim online. Find out how to file a claim for disability compensation If you were part of Projects 112 or SHAD from 1962 to 1974 and want to know more about a certain test site, ship, or unit , see the declassified Department of Defense fact sheets. Get declassified Department of Defense fact sheets If you have a question about the tests , if you have any information that can help show you were part of them including whether you may have been part of them or contact the Department of Defense at 800 - 497 - 6261. 
title : Traumatic Injury Protection (TSGLI) | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Traumatic Injury Protection (TSGLI)  TSGLI also known as Servicemembers Group Life Insurance Traumatic Injury Protection provides short - term financial support to help eligible service members recover from a severe injury. If you were covered by SGLI and experienced a traumatic injury while serving in the military , find out how to file a claim for TSGLI or appeal a past decision.  Am I eligible for TSGLI?  You may be able to get TSGLI if you were insured by SGLI when you experienced a traumatic injury , and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true. You: Have a scheduled loss that is a direct result of the traumatic injury , and Suffered the traumatic injury before midnight on the day that you left the military , and Suffered a scheduled loss within 2 years 730 days of the traumatic injury , and Have survived for a period of not less than 7 full days from the date of the traumatic injury the 7-day period begins on the date and time of the traumatic injury and ends 168 full hours later , and Were an active - duty military member, a Reservist, a National Guard member, on funeral - honors duty, or on 1-day muster duty  Are any injuries excluded from TSGLI?  Yes. To qualify for TSGLI , none of the descriptions below can be true of your injury. None of these can be true. Your injury can t : Be self - inflicted on purpose or the result of an attempt at self - injury, or Involve the use of an illegal drug or a controlled substance that was given or taken without the advice of a medical doctor , or Be the result of medical or surgical treatment of an illness or disease, or Occur while you re committing or trying to commit a felony, or Be the result of a physical or mental illness or disease not including illness or disease caused by a wound infection; a chemical, biological, or radiological weapon; or accidentally swallowing a contaminated substance View TSGLI loss standards  Can I get retroactive TSGLI for a past injury?  You may be able to get retroactive TSGLI meaning that it takes effect starting from a date in the past if you were injured between October 7 , 2001, and November 30 , 2005 , and you meet all of the TSGLI qualifications listed above. You can use this benefit no matter where the injury happened whether you were on or off duty and no matter if your SGLI coverage was in effect when you got injured. Note: We ve removed the previous requirement that you must have been injured during Operations Enduring or Iraqi Freedom OEF or OIF. Find out if you qualify for retroactive benefits  Who s covered?  Service members covered by SGLI  What kind of life insurance benefits can I get through TSGLI?  You may get $25,000 to $100,000 in short - term financial support to help in your recovery from a traumatic injury.  How do I get these benefits?  You re automatically covered through TSGLI if you re signed up for full - time SGLI. This insurance covers you even if your injury happened while you were off duty. To get payments including retroactive TSGLI payments you ll need to apply. To file a claim , fill out the Application for TSGLI Benefits SGLV 8600 , and fax, email , or mail it to us. Look for the address of your service branch on the front page of the form. Download the Application for TSGLI Benefits PDF  How do I appeal a decision if I m denied benefits?  First , look at the denial letter you received from your branch of service. Your letter will tell you if you should use the TSGLI Appeal Request Form SGLV 8600A and how long you ll have to submit your appeal. If your letter says to complete this form , fill it out and submit it to your branch of service. Download the TSGLI Appeal Request Form PDF  How much will I pay for these benefits?  If you have SGLI coverage , your SGLI premium which is automatically deducted from your base pay includes a $1-per - month flat - rate premium for TSGLI. This is all you ll pay for this benefit. 
title : VA Life Insurance | Veterans Affairs#2    Document :  VA life insurance  VA life insurance can offer financial security for Veterans, service members, and their spouses and dependent children. Explore your options, manage your policy, and file claims to get the insurance benefits you've earned.  On this page  Get VA life insurance Manage your policy and benefits More information and resources  Get VA life insurance  About VA insurance options and eligibilityFind out which life insurance plans you may qualify for and the benefits you ll receive with each plan. Benefits for totally disabled or terminally ill policyholdersFind out if you can get your insurance premium waived or receive your benefits early in certain situations. Beneficiary financial counseling and online will preparationIf you're enrolled in a VA life insurance plan, find out if you can get free financial planning and online will preparation services.  Manage your policy and benefits  Access your policy onlineFind out how to check your policy's status, update your information, or pay your premium online. Update your beneficiariesKeep the information up to date about who you want to receive your insurance proceeds. This will make it easier for your family members to file a claim in their time of need. File a claim for insurance benefitsFind out how to claim VA life insurance benefits under your policy. Check your appeal statusTrack the status of your life insurance appeal. Convert to a commercial policyFind out when and how you can convert your VA life insurance to a commercial policy. File a TSGLI appeal VA Form SGLV 8600A If you've received a denial letter for Traumatic Injury Protection Life Insurance benefits that instructs you to use this form, file your appeal by the date provided in your letter. Enroll in VGLI Auto PaySign up to pay your Veterans' Group Life Insurance premium automatically from your bank account. Search for unclaimed insurance fundsIf you think we may owe you funds from a VA insurance policy , search our unclaimed funds records by the qualifying Veteran's name.  More information and resources  How much life insurance do I need? Use our life insurance needs calculator and VGLI comparison questionnaire to help decide how much life insurance you need. Myths and rumors about SGLI / VGLI insuranceGet the facts on common myths, rumors, and misconceptions about SGLI and VGLI insurance. About the SGLI Online Enrollment System SOES Learn about our new online process for enrolling in Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. Contact usFind out how to reach out to ask a question about your policy or file a claim for benefits. VA life insurance formsFind and download the forms you need to apply for and manage your life insurance benefits. Publications and handbooksDownload life insurance handbooks , guides , and newsletters. Mandatory electronic paymentsLearn about the law requiring us to pay all benefits by electronic funds transfer. Medical conditions that may make you uninsurableFind out which medical conditions may make it hard for you to get private life insurance after you separate from service , and what to do to make sure you have coverage. Special dividend rumorsLearn the truth about the rumors that there are special dividends for Veterans who don't have an active government life insurance policy.  Other VA benefits and services  Burial benefits and and memorial itemsGet help planning a burial, order a headstone or other memorial item, and apply for survivor and dependent benefits. Pension benefitsFind out if you're eligible for tax - free monthly payments as a wartime Veteran or surviving spouse or child. VA health careFind out how to apply for and manage your VA health care benefits. 
title : Undergraduate And Graduate Degrees | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Undergraduate and graduate degrees  Find out if you can use GI Bill benefits for college as a Veteran, service member, or qualified dependent. Learn about payment rates for undergraduate and graduate degree courses at institutions of higher learning like a 4-year university, community college, or graduate school.  How do you decide what my payments will be?  We decide your payment amounts based on the number of classes you go to and the hours spent in those classes. For example , for most undergraduate degrees , a college considers : 12 or more hours full time Between 9 and 11 hours three - quarter time Between 6 and 8 hours half time Less than 6 hours reimbursable at a rate that s no more than the tuition and fees charged for the course  How much does VA cover for graduate-level programs?  The school decides how to rate each hour. For example , if a graduate program at your school considers a 2-hour class full time , we ll pay you the full - time rate.  Can I take classes at more than one school at a time?  You can take classes at more than one school under the GI Bill as long as : The classes at both schools count toward your degree , and The school granting your degree considers the classes at the second school to be required in order to get your degree Note : The GI Bill won t pay you to take the same class twice unless you get a failing grade in a class that the school requires for graduation.  Can I use the GI Bill to pay for classes toward more than one degree?  Yes. After earning your first degree , you can use any GI Bill benefits you have left over to pay for classes for another degree.  How does VA make the payments?  We issue payments after each month s classes. For example , you ll get the payment for November classes in December. For the Post-9/11 GI Bill , we pay : Tuition and fees directly to the school Money for books to you at the beginning of the term Housing allowance to you at the end of each month 
title : Multiple party or contested claims | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Multiple party or contested claims  Mark your calendar  You have 60 days from the date on your decision to request a Board Appeal.  Can I add new evidence?  You have the option to add new evidence for a judge to review. You ll have to submit this evidence within 90 days from the date VA receives your Board Appeal form. This option will take longer.  Can I request a hearing?  You have the option to request a hearing with a judge. A video conference hearing will take place at a VA location near you. This option will take longer.  What happens at a hearing?  You and the judge will have a conversation. The judge will listen to your testimony. The judge may ask you a few questions. Your representative , if you have one , may help you at the hearing. The hearing will be transcribed and added to your appeal file. You can add new and relevant evidence within 90 days after the hearing , but it isn t required.  How do I request a Board Appeal?  To request a Board Appeal , fill out the Decision Review Request: Board Appeal VA Form 10182. Download VA Form 10182 PDF  Choose one of the 3 options to appeal with a Veterans Law Judge  Direct ReviewIf you want a Veterans Law Judge to review your case as quickly as possible, choose a Direct Review. Evidence SubmissionIf you have additional evidence for a Veterans Law Judge to review, choose Evidence Submission. Hearing RequestIf you want a video conference hearing with a Veterans Law Judge at a nearby VA location , choose a Hearing Request. At your hearing , you and a Veterans Law Judge will have a conversation , and they ll ask you questions about your appeal. Your hearing will be transcribed and added to your appeal file. Learn more about hearings and how to request one  List the issue(s) you want to appeal in Part III  You can include all or just some of the issues VA has decided. You ll need to list the issue you disagree with and the VA decision date for each.  Apply  Fill out the Decision Review Request: Board Appeal VA Form 10182. Download VA Form 10182 PDF By mail Send the completed form and any supporting documents to this address : Board of Veterans AppealsPO Box 27063Washington , D.C. 20038 In person Bring your completed form to a regional benefit office. Find a regional benefit office near you By fax Fax your completed form to 844 - 678 - 8979. You can also ask a regional benefit office for a copy of this form to fill out. Or you can call the VA toll - free hotline at 800 - 827 - 1000, Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. ET , to request a form.  After a Board decision  If you disagree with the Board s decision , you can appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. You can hire an attorney to represent you , or you can represent yourself. Learn more about filing a Court Appeal  Mark your calendar  You have 120 days from the date on your decision to file a Court Appeal. Note: A Court Appeal must be filed with the Court, not with VA.  What happens next?  Find out what happens after you request a decision review You don t need to do anything while you wait unless VA sends you a letter asking for more information. If VA schedules exams for you , be sure not to miss them. Track the status of your appeal  What if I need help?  A Veterans Service Organization or VA - accredited attorney or agent can help you request a decision review. Get help requesting a decision review  What if I have more questions?  Get answers to frequently asked questions about decision reviews. Go to FAQs 
title : Educational And Career Counseling (VA Chapter 36) | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Educational and Career Counseling (VA Chapter 36)  Find out how to apply for VA Chapter 36 benefits to get free Veteran Educational and Career Counseling services. You may be eligible if you re leaving active service soon, if you ve been discharged within the past year, or if you re the dependent of a Veteran.  Who s eligible for Educational and Career Counseling?  You can get these services if one of the following is true. You: Will be discharged from active duty within 6 months , or Separated from active duty not more than one year ago, or Qualify as a Veteran or service member for educational assistance under a VA educational program, or Are currently receiving VA education benefits Note: If you re the dependent of a Veteran , you may also qualify for Educational and Career Counseling. Learn more about employment benefits for dependents  What benefits can I get?  Counseling to help you decide which civilian or military jobs you want to help you find a training program or job Educational and Career Counseling to help you deal with issues that get in the way of your success in training or employment Academic and adjustment counseling  How do I get these benefits?  First , you ll need to apply for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment benefits. Then , you ll work with your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor VRC.  Follow these steps to apply online now  Sign in to your eBenefits account. Select Apply. Click Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits. Apply for Education and Career Counseling. If you're eligible , we ll invite you to an orientation session at your nearest VA regional benefit office. Go to eBenefits to apply  You can also apply by mail  Fill out an Educational / Vocational Counseling Application VA Form 28 - 8832. Download VA Form 28 - 8832 PDF Mail the completed form to your nearest VA regional benefit office. Find your nearest VA regional benefit office If you qualify , we ll invite you to an orientation session at a VA regional benefit office near you.  Get more information  Watch this video to learn more about VR&E Chapter 36 services Use CareerScope to find careers you might enjoy. Learn more about CareerScope 
title : After You Apply For An Eligibility Determination | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  After you apply for an eligibility determination  Find out what happens after you apply for a pre - need eligibility determination for burial in a VA national cemetery.  How long does it take VA to make a decision?  The amount of time it takes to review your application depends on : The number of applications we re reviewing , and How much information you provided in your application , and Whether you provided your or your sponsor s DD214 or other separation documents along with your application Note: We ve received a large number of pre - need eligibility applications , and it s slowing down our approval process. We ll let you know when we ve received your application and how long we think it ll take to make a decision. We re sorry for the delay. For more information , you can call 877 - 222 - 8387, Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Please wait to hear back about your application rather than applying again. You don t need to do anything while you wait. We ll contact you if we need more information to make a decision.  If you qualify for burial benefits  You ll receive a VA burial and memorial benefits folder from us in the mail. Your folder will include : A letter telling you if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery. This is called your pre - need decision letter. A National Cemetery Administration brochure and a burial benefits information sheet. These will tell you more about the benefits you ll receive. A copy of the supporting documents you submitted with your application  What should I do after I receive my pre-need decision letter and folder?  Keep your pre - need decision letter and folder in a safe place. Talk to your family members or authorized representative about your burial wishes including any memorialization requests and inscriptions and make sure they know where your benefits folder is located. They ll need this information to request your burial at the time of need.  What do my family members need to do to request my burial at the time of need?  At the time of need , the person arranging your burial should call the National Cemetery Scheduling Office at 800 - 535 - 1117 to request a burial. They ll need your pre - need eligibility determination letter at that time. We ll also keep a copy of your pre - need application, the decision letter, and your supporting documents in our system to help speed up burial arrangements. When your family member or authorized representative requests your burial , we ll confirm your pre - need eligibility determination based on the laws in effect at that time. Learn more about planning a burial for a family member  Will my family have to pay for my burial?  No. If you qualify for burial in a VA national cemetery , you ll receive burial benefits at no cost to your family. Burial benefits include : Opening and closing of the grave A burial liner provided by the government A headstone or marker provided by the government Perpetual ongoing care of the gravesite The person arranging your burial can also request additional honors and memorial items. Learn more about honors and memorial items If you re a Veteran , your surviving spouse or other family members may also qualify for survivor benefits, including help paying for funeral costs. Learn more about survivor benefits  What if I change my mind and don t want to be buried in a VA national cemetery?  Your family members can make arrangements for your burial at a private cemetery even if we ve already sent you a pre - need decision letter. There s no need to contact VA about this change of plans. However , even if you re buried at a private cemetery , your family members can still request a headstone or marker at the time of need. The family member can make this request using the Claim for Standard Government Headstone or Marker VA Form 40 - 1330. To make this request , print out the form and fill it out, and mail the completed form to: Memorial Products Service 41B Department of Veterans Affairs5109 Russell RoadQuantico, VA 22134 - 3903  If you don t qualify for burial benefits  We ll send you a denial decision letter explaining the reasons or basis of our denial. We ll also send you a form called Your Rights to Seek Further Review of Our Decision VA Form 20 - 0998 along with your denial letter. This form explains your rights to appeal or to request another review, and how to submit more evidence. You can send us more supporting documents whether or not you choose to appeal the pre - need decision. Learn more about appeals and reviews of VA claimsSee more information about claims and review processes  How much time do I have to appeal the decision or request another review?  It depends on which option you use to request a review or to appeal. Each option has a different time requirement. Your options include : Add new and relevant evidence file a Supplemental Claim Ask for a new look from a senior reviewer request a Higher - Level Review Appeal to a Veterans Law Judge request a Board Appeal See time requirements for each type of claim appeal and reviewLearn how to file your claim using VA Form 20 - 0998  Can my family member or authorized representative still apply for my burial in a VA national cemetery at the time of need?  Yes. Laws and personal circumstances may change earlier eligibility decisions. We ll make the final decision of whether you qualify for burial at the time of need.  How to update your information  You can update your information at any time. Call our toll - free hotline at 877 - 222 - 8387. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. 
title : Careers And Employment | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Careers and employment  We offer the help you need to build your career and find the opportunities that are right for you.  On this page  Get career and employment assistance Manage your career More information and resources  How do I get help if I'm homeless or at risk of becoming homeless?  We offer many programs and services that may help including free health care and, in some cases, free limited dental care. We can also help you connect with resources in your community, like homeless shelters or faith - based organizations. Find the support you need : Call the National Call Center for Homeless Veterans at 877 - 424 - 3838 for help 24 hours a day , 7 days a week. You ll talk privately with a trained VA counselor for free. Contact your nearest VA medical center and ask to talk with the VA social worker. If you're a female Veteran , ask for the Women Veterans Program Manager. Find the nearest VA medical center Talk with someone right now : If you're a Veteran in crisis or concerned about one , connect with our caring, qualified Veterans Crisis Line responders for confidential help. Many of them are Veterans themselves. This service is private, free, and available 24/7. Chat online with a trained VA staff member  Get career and employment assistance  About Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Chapter 31 programsExplore support - and - services program tracks for Veterans and service members with service - connected disabilities. Our programs can help you learn new skills, find a new job, start a new business, get educational counseling, or return to your former job. EligibilityIf you have a service - connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you're eligible for vocational rehab. How to applyGet step - by - step instructions on how to apply for vocational rehab benefits. Educational and Career Counseling Chapter 36 Find out how to get free educational and career counseling as a recently discharged Veteran or a dependent family member. to do business with VA Support for your Veteran - Owned Small BusinessRegister and get support for your Veteran - Owned Small Business. Support for dependent family membersSee if you're eligible for educational and vocational counseling as the dependent spouse or child of a Veteran or service member.  Manage your career  VA transition assistanceAs you separate from the military, explore your career options by attending a Transition Assistance Program TAP briefing. Match your interests and skills to a career with a CareerScope assessmentUse this online tool to get recommendations for careers you may enjoy and succeed in, and training programs to help you get started. Find a job Department of Labor Search for jobs, get help translating your military skills and experience to civilian jobs, and access other career resources. Find VA careers and supportGet support for starting or advancing your career at VA or other federal government departments. Print your Civil Service Preference LetterPrint your Civil Service Preference Letter to verify your hiring preference for federal jobs. Get free classes for a year LinkedIn Get one year of free access to LinkedIn Premium and LinkedIn Learning.  More information and resources  Subsistence allowance ratesView the current subsistence allowance rates to find out the amount we'll provide to help you pay for basic needs like food and clothing if you're an eligible Veteran participating in the Voc Rehab program. VetSuccess on CampusFind out if our counselors can help you transition from military to college life. Voc Rehab and Employment glossarySee the definitions of our programs and other common terms you may read when learning about Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment benefits. Voc Rehab success storiesRead Veterans' stories of how Voc Rehab counselors and services helped them overcome challenges, find new opportunities, and achieve greater goals. Resources for VeteransGet links to more resources outside of VA that can help you in your job search. Resources for family membersAccess valuable career resources for spouses and other family members of Veterans and service members.  Other VA benefits and services  GI Bill benefitsExplore options for using GI Bill benefits to help pay for school or training, and find out what benefits you can get. Other educational assistance programsIf you re a Veteran, Reservist, or National Guard Soldier who doesn t qualify for the Post-9/11 GI Bill , see if you can get education benefits through other VA programs. Home loansApply for a Certificate of Eligibility for a VA direct or VA - backed home loan to build, buy, improve, or refinance a home. Life insuranceExplore your life insurance options and find out how to apply as a service member, Veteran, or family member.  VA for Vets  Get help transitioning to a civilian career and matching your skills and experiences to VA job opportunities.  Message us  Ask a question online  Call us  VA benefits hotline:800 - 827 - 1000 eBenefits technical support:800 - 983 - 0937 Call MyVA311 for help:844 - 698 - 2311 If you have hearing loss , call TTY : 711.  Veterans Benefits Administration  Get updates  Veterans benefits email updates  Follow us  Veterans Benefits Administration Facebook Veterans Benefits Administration Instagram Veterans Benefits Administration Linkedin Veterans Benefits Administration Twitter Veterans Benefits Administration YouTube 
title : Upload Evidence To Support Your Disability Claim | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Upload evidence to support your disability claim  If you ve filed a claim for disability compensation , you can continue uploading more evidence for up to one year to support your claim. Evidence may include supporting documents like medical test results, doctor s reports, and other records. Upload your evidence online now.  How do I upload evidence online to support my disability claim?  You can upload evidence to support your disability claim through our claim tracking tool. This tool also helps you check the status of your claim. Find out how to sign in to use this tool  If I filed a standard disability claim, when should I upload evidence?  Upload your evidence as soon as you can. You can continue uploading documents for up to one year from the date we receive your claim. But , if you don t provide any evidence or give us the information we need to help you get evidence within 30 days , we may make a decision on your claim earlier. If we decide your claim early , you ll still have the rest of the one - year period to provide more information or evidence.  What happens if I upload more evidence after I ve submitted a fully developed claim?  We ll remove your disability claim from the Fully Developed Claims program and process it as a standard claim. If we decide your claim earlier than one year from the date we received the claim , you ll still have the rest of the year to provide any additional information or evidence.  What kinds of documents should I upload to support my disability claim?  Federal and state records  These include copies of : Your military medical records Your military personnel records Any Social Security Administration or other federal or state medical treatment records that support your claim if you ve served in either of these branches Any treatment or personnel records from your National Guard or Reserve unit If you don t have copies of these records , you can ask us to request them for you as part of the claim process.  Private medical treatment records  If you ve seen a non - VA health care provider for diagnosis or treatment , you ll need to upload copies of all medical records that can provide information about the disability you re claiming. These may include evidence like : Doctor s reports X-rays Medical lab or test results  Supporting statements  If you re claiming a disability for an injury or illness that you don t think we have in your military records , you ll also want to upload statements that support your claim. These statements should be from people who know about, or who you ve talked to about, your claimed medical condition and how and when it occurred. You can ask for supporting statements from people like : who served with you Service members Your family and friends Clergy members Law enforcement officers  Disability Benefits Questionnaires (DBQs)  You can help speed up your claim by using Disability Benefits Questionnaires DBQs. These forms ask for specific information we need to determine a disability rating for different medical conditions. You can help to make sure that our ratings specialists have exactly what they need to make a decision on your claim by asking your VA or non - VA community health care provider to fill out one or more DBQs. You can search for DBQs to download by form name or by symptom. Find VA DBQs to take to your health care provider  Any additional forms needed to support your claim  In some cases , you may need to turn in one or more additional forms to support your disability claim. See if you need to complete any additional forms  Can I upload evidence to support an appeal?  No. You can only upload evidence to support your initial disability claim. Learn more about filing an appeal 
title : Benefits For Spouses And Dependents (VA DIC) | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Benefits for spouses and dependents (VA DIC)  If you re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a service member who died in the line of duty, or the survivor of a Veteran who died from a service - related injury or illness, you may be able to get a tax - free monetary benefit called VA Dependency and Indemnity Compensation VA DIC. Find out if you can get VA benefits or compensation.  DIC eligibility for survivors of Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans  If we denied your Blue Water Navy Veteran s service - connected disability claim in the past , you may be eligible for DIC benefits based on the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019. See DIC eligibility information and how to apply. Veterans who served on a Blue Water Navy vessel offshore of the Republic of Vietnam, or on another U.S. Navy or Coast Guard ship operating in the coastal waterways of Vietnam between January 9 , 1962, and May 7 , 1975, are now entitled to a presumption of service connection for illnesses related to Agent Orange exposure. This is a result of Public Law 116 - 23, also known as the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019.  Am I eligible for VA DIC as a surviving spouse or dependent?  You may be eligible for VA benefits or compensation for surviving spouses if you meet the requirements listed below. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. One of these must be true. You: Married the Veteran or service member before January 1 , 1957 , or Married the Veteran or service member within 15 years of their discharge from the period of military service during which the qualifying illness or injury started or got worse , or Were married to the Veteran or service member for at least 1 year , or Had a child with the Veteran or service member , aren t currently remarried , and either lived with the Veteran or service member without a break until their death or, if separated, weren t at fault for the separation Note: If you remarried on or after December 16 , 2003, and you were 57 years of age or older at the time you remarried , you can still continue to receive compensation. You ll also need to provide evidence showing that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died while on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive - duty training, or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury , or The Veteran didn t die from a service - connected illness or injury, but was eligible to receive VA compensation for a service - connected disability rated as totally disabling for a certain period of time If the Veteran s eligibility was due to a rating of totally disabling , they must have had this rating : For at least 10 years before their death , or Since their release from active duty and for at least 5 years immediately before their death , or For at least 1 year before their death if they were a former prisoner of war who died after September 30 , 1999 Note : Totally disabling means the Veteran s injuries made it impossible for them to work. You may be able to get compensation as a surviving child if you meet the requirements listed below. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. All of these must be true. You: Aren t married , and Aren t included on the surviving spouse s compensation , and Are under the age of 18 or under the age of 23 if attending school Note: If you were adopted out of the Veteran s or service member s family, but meet all other eligibility criteria , you still qualify for compensation. You ll also need to provide evidence that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died while on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive - duty training, or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury , or The Veteran didn t die from a service - connected illness or injury, but was eligible to receive VA compensation for a service - connected disability that was rated as totally disabling for a certain period of time If the Veteran s eligibility was due to a service - connected disability rated as totally disabling , they must have had this rating : For at least 10 years before their death , or Since their release from active duty and for at least 5 years immediately before their death , or For at least 1 year before their death if they were a former prisoner of war who died after September 30 , 1999 Note : Totally disabling means the Veteran s injuries make it impossible for them to work. You may be able to get compensation as a surviving parent if both of the descriptions below are true for you. You ll also need to provide evidence with your claim showing that one of the descriptions below is true for the Veteran or service member. Evidence may include documents like military service records, doctor s reports, and medical test results. Both of these must be true : You re the biological, adoptive, or foster parent of the Veteran or service member , and Your income is below a certain amount View the parents DIC rate table Note: We define a foster parent as someone who served in the role of a parent to the Veteran or service member before their last entry into active service. You ll also need to provide evidence that one of these descriptions is true for the Veteran or service member : The service member died from an injury or illness while on active duty or in the line of duty while on active duty for training , or The service member died from an injury or certain illnesses in the line of duty while on inactive training , or The Veteran died from a service - connected illness or injury  What kind of benefits can I get?  Tax - free monetary benefits  How do I apply for compensation?  First you ll need to fill out an application for benefits. The application you fill out will depend on your survivor status. If you re the surviving spouse or child of a service member who died while on active duty , your military casualty assistance officer will help you to complete an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits by a Surviving Spouse or Child VA Form 21P-534a. The officer will help you mail the form to the correct VA regional benefit office. Download VA Form 21P-534a PDF If you re the surviving spouse or child of a Veteran , fill out an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits VA Form 21P-534EZ. Download VA Form 21P-534EZ PDF If you re a surviving parent , fill out an Application for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation by Parent VA Form 21P-535. Download VA Form 21P-535 PDF  You can apply for this benefit in any of these ways:  Mail the form to the Pension Management Center PMC for your state. Find your PMC Work with an accredited representative. Get help filing your claim Go to a VA regional benefit office and get help from a VA employee. Find a VA regional benefit office near you 
title : About VA Health Benefits | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  About VA health benefits  If you qualify for VA health care , you ll receive coverage for the services you need to help you get and stay healthy. Learn more about your health care benefits.  What care and services does VA health care cover?  Each Veteran s medical benefits package is unique. Yours will include care and services to help : Treat illnesses and injuries Prevent future health problems Improve your ability to function Enhance your quality of life All Veterans receive coverage for most care and services , but only some will qualify for added benefits like dental care. The full list of your covered benefits depends on : Your priority group , and The advice of your VA primary care provider your main doctor, nurse practitioner, or physician s assistant , and The medical standards for treating any health conditions you may have Learn more about priority groups You should also know that being signed up for VA health care meets your Affordable Care Act ACA health coverage requirement of having minimum essential health coverage. We ll update this site if the ACA changes with new laws. Learn more about the ACA, VA, and you  What if I m just separating from active duty and don t know where to start?  We can help you learn about and apply for VA health care benefits. A member of our Concierge for Care C4C team will call you soon after your separation from military service. We can answer any questions you may have, process your application over the phone, and help you schedule your first VA medical appointment. Learn about transitioning from TRICARE to VA health care  More about your medical benefits package  We cover preventive care services, like : Health exams including gender - specific exams Health education including nutrition education Immunization against infectious diseases like flu shots Counseling on genetic diseases diseases that run in families We cover inpatient hospital services, like : Surgeries Medical treatments Kidney dialysis Acute care short - term treatment for a severe illness or injury or after surgery Specialized care including organ transplants, intensive care for mental and physical conditions, and care for traumatic injuries. See more VA medical and surgical specialty care services We cover urgent and emergency care services, like : Urgent or emergency care at some VA health facilities. Find a VA health facility near you Urgent care for injuries and illnesses that need attention right away, but aren't life threatening, at urgent care locations that are part of our contracted network. This may include care at a VA - approved : Walk - in retail health clinic for minor illnesses like a sore throat or earache Urgent care facility for more pressing but not life - threatening illnesses or injuries that require treatment like splinting, casting, or wound care To use these services, you ll need to be enrolled in VA health care , and you'll need to have received care from us within the past 24 months. Be sure to tell the urgent care provider that you're using the VA urgent care benefit when you arrive. Learn more about urgent care Emergency care in a non - VA hospital, clinic, or other medical setting only under certain conditions. For us to consider covering non - VA emergency care for a non - service - connected condition , you ll need to meet several requirements. Learn more about non - VA emergency medical care We cover other services and needs, like : Mental health services to treat certain issues like posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD, military sexual trauma MST, depression, and substance use problems. Learn more about mental health services Assisted living and home health care depending on your needs and income as well as space in the programs. Learn more about assisted living and home health care Prescriptions written or approved by a VA doctor. Refill your prescriptions We may cover services that your VA primary care provider concludes you need to support your treatment called ancillary services, like : Tests used to diagnose health conditions, including blood work, X - rays, and ultrasounds Therapy and rehabilitation services , including physical therapy, vision rehab, and therapy for traumatic brain injury Additional services , including prosthetic items, audiology care for hearing loss, and radiation oncology cancer care You may be able to get help with some non - medical services, like : Beneficiary travel benefits help paying for travel related to treatment Caregiver support help for the person who cares for you Veterans transportation service help getting to and from appointments Contact the patient advocate at the VA medical center where you go for care. Your patient advocate can help you get foreign language or American Sign Language services to help you or your family members understand your medical or health care benefits. To find out how to reach the patient advocate at your VA medical center , go to the website of the VA health care system that the medical center is part of. In the page s navigation , click on Patients & Visitors. A submenu will appear. Select Patient Information and then Customer Service. Find your medical center s website We cover routine eye exams and preventive tests. In some cases , you may get coverage for eyeglasses or services for blind or low - vision rehabilitation. Learn more about vision care through VA In certain cases , you may receive dental care as part of your VA health benefits. Find out if you can get dental care through VA As a Veteran , you may be able to get assisted living, residential live - in, or home health care through VA.Find out how to access these long - term care services These services are not included in your VA medical benefits package : Abortions and abortion counseling Cosmetic surgery , unless we conclude that it s medically necessary needed to prevent or treat a certain illness, injury, condition, disease, or symptoms Gender alteration gender reassignment surgery Health club or spa membership Medicines and medical devices that aren t approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA, except in 2 special cases : You re in an approved clinical trial , or You re seriously ill and your VA health care provider prescribes a new, unapproved medicine because there are no other comparable treatment options called a compassionate use or expanded access exemption if you re a patient or inmate in a non - VA government agency institution, if that agency must provide the care or services by law Inpatient hospital or outpatient care We ll fill prescriptions by a non - VA community provider only if you meet all the requirements listed below. All of these must be true : You re enrolled in VA health care You have an assigned VA primary care provider You ve given your VA provider your medical records from your non - VA provider Your VA provider agrees with the prescription Learn more about prescriptions from community providers This will depend on factors like your income level, disability rating, and military service history. Most Veterans need to complete a financial assessment when they enroll. This helps us determine if you qualify for free VA health care. Learn more about VA copaysFind out more about financial assessments At VA , we take a team approach to health care with you at the center. Research shows this kind of approach leads to better quality care, more satisfied patients, and fewer hospital visits. Find out who will care for you when you become part of the VA health care program. When you sign up for VA health care , you become part of the country s largest integrated health care system with more than 1,200 care locations serving nearly 9 million Veterans each year. Learn more about where you ll get care If you have other forms of health care coverage like a private insurance plan, Medicare, Medicaid, or TRICARE , you can use VA health care benefits along with these plans. Learn more about how VA works with other health insurance Yes.  If you're an eligible American Indian or Alaska Native Veteran  When you receive care through an Indian Health Service facility or Tribal Health facility that has a reimbursement agreement with us : You don't need us to approve or " preauthorize " your care before you get treated , and You don't need to pay a VA copay If you live in Alaska You may be able to receive care through an Indian Health Service facility or Tribal Health facility even if you're not an eligible American Indian or Alaska Native Veteran. But , you'll need to get preauthorization before you receive care , and you may need to pay a copay for your care. To learn more , email the Indian Health Service and Tribal Health Health Program team or read more about the Indian Health Service and Tribal Health Programs online. Please call us at 877 - 222 - 8387. We're here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Or contact your state s Veterans agency Yes. If you re signed up for the VA health care program , you can manage your VA health and benefits online : Refill your prescriptionsSend a secure message to your health care team You can also check the status of a disability or pension claim online. Check your claim status 
title : Pre-Need Eligibility For Burial In A VA Cemetery | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Pre-need eligibility for burial in a VA cemetery  You can apply to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery. This is called a pre - need determination of eligibility and it can help make the burial planning process easier for your family members in their time of need. Follow the steps below to apply. Please note: Pre - need means before the time of need. This application is for planning for your own burial in advance. Please don t complete this form if you re requesting burial at the time of need. Find out how to schedule a burial  How do I prepare before starting my application?  Find out if you re eligible. One of these must describe you:  A Veteran who didn t receive a dishonorable discharge when you separated from the military , or The spouse or dependent child of a service member or Veteran , even if the service member or Veteran has already passed away , or In some cases , the adult dependent child of a service member or Veteran if you aren t married We base our decision of whether or not you qualify for burial in a VA national cemetery on your service history or the service history of the Veteran or service member who s sponsoring your application for burial as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child. Get more details about eligibility Note: If a service member dies on active duty , they re eligible for burial without a pre - need decision letter.  Choose the VA national cemetery where you d prefer to be buried.  Find a VA national cemetery Please note: This application is only for VA national cemeteries. If you d like to be buried in a state or tribal Veterans cemetery , contact that specific cemetery ahead of time to find out about their pre - need program. Some state Veterans cemeteries require that you live in that state or have other rules around eligibility. You can apply for a pre - need determination of eligibility from VA and also from a state or tribal Veterans cemetery. Find a state Veterans cemetery This application doesn t apply to Arlington National Cemetery or the United States Soldiers and Airmen s Home National Cemetery. If you d like to be buried in either of these Department of the Army cemeteries , please call 877 - 907 - 8585. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. ET , and Saturday , 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. ET. Getting a pre - need determination of eligibility doesn t guarantee you ll be buried in a specific VA national cemetery. We don t take reservations at any VA national cemetery. However , we ask where you prefer to be buried so we can try to help fulfill your final wishes.  Gather the supporting documents and information you ll need to fill out the application.  Please see the list below. If you don t have everything on the list , you can still apply and we ll help by finding the supporting documents we need. Just keep in mind that the more information you can give us when you apply, the faster we can review your application and give you a decision. We ll contact you if we need you to provide additional information.  Be sure to fill out an application for each person requesting a pre-need eligibility determination.  If both you and your spouse are applying , you ll each need to fill out your own application.  What information do I need to apply?  To apply , you ll need your or your sponsor s : Social Security number Date and place of birth Military status and service history like service dates, discharge character, and rank commonly found on the DD214 or other separation documents Discharge papers DD214 or other separation documents Note : If you don t have discharge papers, find out how to request the DD214. If you re applying as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child, you ll also need your personal information, including your Social Security number. If you re applying on behalf of someone else , you ll also need supporting documents showing you have the authority to apply for that person. You ll need to fill out one of these forms : Appointment of Veterans Service Organization as Claimant s Representative VA Form 21 - 22 Download VA Form 21 - 22 PDF Appointment of Individual as Claimant s Representative VA Form 21 - 22a Download VA Form 21 - 22a PDF If you re applying for an unmarried adult child of a Veteran or service member , you ll also need to provide supporting documents with information about the child s disability. The Veteran or guardian of the child should also ask the child s current doctor to verify the documents. These documents should include all of the following information : The date of the disability's onset , and A description of the disability, mental or physical, and A description of how dependent the disabled child is on the Veteran , and The marital status of the child  How do I apply?  You can apply online right now. Apply for pre - need eligibility  You can also apply:  By mail  Fill out an Application for Pre - need Determination of Eligibility for Burial in a VA National Cemetery VA Form 40 - 10007. Download VA Form 40 - 10007 PDF The person applying for a pre - need determination must sign the form. If that person is under 18 years old , mentally unable to make decisions for themselves sometimes called mentally incompetent, or physically unable to sign the form , a spouse, parent, or court - appointed representative may sign the form. If you re signing the form on behalf of someone else , you ll need to : Select box 33B on the form and provide your name, address, phone number, and email address in blocks 34 through 37 Provide supporting documents that show why the person applying can t sign Provide supporting documents that show your relationship to the person applying Send your completed application with copies of your supporting documents to : National Cemetery Scheduling OfficePO Box 510543St. Louis , MO 63151 Please don t send us the originals of your DD214 and other supporting documents since we can t return them. Send copies only.  By fax  You can fax your application to us at 855 - 840 - 8299.  What if I need help filling out my application?  Call our toll - free hotline at 877 - 222 - 8387. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA - related claims, like an accredited representative or Veterans Service Officer VSO. Find a representative Find your state s Veterans agency Note: These services are free. No one should ever ask you to pay them to help you fill out VA Form 40 - 10007 or file your request.  What happens after I apply?  Find out what happens after you apply for a pre - need eligibility determination Note: We ve received a large number of pre - need eligibility applications , and it s slowing down our approval process. We ll let you know when we ve received your application and how long we think it ll take to make a decision. We re sorry for the delay. For more information , you can call 877 - 222 - 8387. We re here Monday through Friday , 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET. Please wait to hear back about your application rather than applying again. 
title : Co-op Training | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Co-op training  A college or university co - op training program lets you get full - time work experience in between periods of going to school full time. You may be able to get help paying for some of your costs like books, tuition, and housing if you re part of a co - op. Find out if you can get these education benefits.  Can I get education benefits for co-op training?  You may be able to get money for books, tuition, and housing if you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true : You re using VA educational assistance , and You re enrolled at an approved Institution of Higher Learning IHL , and You re in an educational program that requires part - time study and part - time work or training  Who s covered?  Veterans  What benefits can I get?  Help paying for tuition Money for books and housing  How much will I get if I join a co-op training program?  The amount we cover depends on the benefit you use. View current payment rates The Post-9/11 GI Bill : If the program is at a public IHL, we pay the actual costs for public in - state tuition and fees. If the program is at a private or foreign IHL , we pay the lesser of the national maximum or the actual costs for in - state tuition and fees. We also pay for some of the cost of housing and books. All other GI Bill programs : We pay a monthly rate that depends on which GI Bill program you qualify for. 
title : Tutorial Assistance | Veterans Affairs#1    Document :  Tutorial assistance  If you re using VA educational assistance, and you re struggling with the coursework , we may help you pay for a tutor. Find out how it works.  Am I eligible for this benefit?  You can get this benefit if you re using VA educational assistance and you meet all of the requirements listed below. All of these must be true : You re enrolled in an educational program for half - time or more , and You re taking a course that s difficult , and You have to take the course as part of your educational program  Who s covered?  Veterans  What benefits can I get?  Money to pay for a tutor Note: We won t pay more than $100 per month for tutoring , and we won t pay more than $1,200 total.  How do I get this benefit?  Your course instructor or teacher at your school must agree that you need a tutor and write a letter on your behalf. The instructor should send the letter to your school s certifying official and add a copy to your VA student file. If your school approves your need for a tutor , it will assign you a tutor and confirm the tutor s hourly pay. After you get tutoring , you, your tutor , and your school s certifying official must fill out and sign an Application for Individualized Tutorial Assistance VA Form 22 - 1990 t. If you re using the Post-9/11 GI Bill , your instructor must also sign section 18 of this form. Download VA Form 22 - 1990 t PDF The form must be signed and dated on or after the date of the last certified tutoring session item 12b on the form. If you re using the Montgomery GI Bill MGIB , you can get up to $600 before we charge your benefits. If you re using the Post-9/11 GI Bill or Dependents Educational Assistance DEA , we won t charge your GI Bill benefits. Note: Reservists using the Reserve Educational Assistance Program REAP benefit can t also get tutorial assistance. 
title : Register a vehicle when you are out-of-state#1    Document :  Register a vehicle when you are out-of-state[1]  How can I register while I am outside of New York State?  You can apply for a New York State registration and a title certificate by mail from outside of New York. You will need to mail these items to a local DMV office [2] 1 a completed Vehicle Registration / Title Application PDF [3] MV-82 proof of ownership 2 must be original; we don t accept photocopies proof of NY State automobile liability insurance 3 proof of identity and age 4 send us photocopies; don t send us your original documents payment for sales tax see sales tax information [4 ] You must contact the motor vehicle agency in the other state to determine if their laws require that you register your vehicles there. The definition of " resident " is different in each state. Read the NY State definition of' resident. ' Once we process your application , we will send you these items in one package your registration documents your vehicle plates a 10-day Inspection Extension Sticker VS-1077 Put the 10-day Inspection Sticker on your vehicle when you enter New York State not before. Mark the box on the sticker that indicates you entered New York , and write the date you entered. We will send you your title certificate separately. Allow up to 90 days to receive it from us.  When will I get my documents?  Allow 6 weeks for your registration documents to arrive by mail. Allow 90 days for your title certificate to arrive. It will take longer to receive your documents if you are outside of the United States.  Can I get registration documents by express mail?  Yes. To do this , enclose a pre - paid, pre - addressed express mail package with your application. Make sure the package can contain vehicle plates.  Can I have my registration sent to an address that is different from my registration document?  Yes. Include a separate note with your Vehicle Registration / Title Application PDF [3] MV-82, and clearly print the alternate address. Do not write the alternate address on your application. If you do , DMV will prints the alternate address on your registration document and registration record.  Can I have my title certificate sent to an address different from my registration?  No. The DMV sends the title certificate to the mailing address on your registration application. The DMV cannot send the title certificate to another address.  My vehicle is coming from another country. What do I need to do?  Read the instructions for how to register an imported [5] vehicle.  Can another person submit my registration application at a DMV office for me?  Yes. Read the instructions for how to register a vehicle for someone [6] else to learn how to do this. We recommend sending any original documents by insured or priority mail. It can be difficult to replace documents that are lost in the mail. For cars, trucks and motorcycles that are model year 1973 or newer , proof can be either a NY State Certificate of Title the original or a certified copy, not a photocopy acceptable proof of ownership from any other state the original or a certified copy, not a photocopy See acceptable proofs [7] for other vehicles older than 1973, manufactured homes, boats, trailers, ATVs, snowmobiles, gifted vehicles, vehicles with deceased owners. Your insurance company will: 1) give you 2 barcoded original NY State Insurance ID cards (see a sample [8]) or provide you with access to your digital electronic NY State Insurance ID Card 2) send an electronic notice of insurance coverage to the DMV (your insurance agent or broker cannot file this notice) Your NY State Insurance ID cards and the electronic notice together verify your coverage. We need both. You must register your vehicle within 180 days of the effective date on your Insurance ID Card. Bring one copy or form of your Insurance ID Card with you. The DMV office will keep the paper card. Keep the other paper card with the vehicle as your proof of insurance. Anyone operating your vehicle must be able to provide proof of insurance. Learn more about NY State Insurance Requirements [9]. You must be at least 16 years old except for ATV registrations. A NY State Driver License, Learner Permit, or Non - Driver ID card that is current or not expired for more than 2 years can serve as proof of both identity and age . If you don t have one of these, see other kinds of proof [10] you can use. Most states allow a non - resident to register a vehicle. It can be easier to apply for a vehicle registration and title certificate in the other state. If you are traveling and your registration expires , you should determine if the other state can issue an " in - transit " permit, which allows you to transport a vehicle to New York so that you can register it. Definition of New York State Resident Section 250 5 of the Vehicle and Traffic Law defines the term' resident. ' The law defines a resident as a person who lives in NY State with the intent to make NY State a " fixed and permanent " place to live. To live in a house, a home, an apartment, a room or other similar place in NY State for 90 days is considered " presumptive evidence " that you are a resident of NY State. A police officer can use this evidence as the reason to issue a traffic ticket if you drive in NY State without a driver license or vehicle registration issued by NY State. A judge considers the law and the evidence of your intent and decides if you are a resident of NY State. For example , if you pay taxes or your children attend school in another state , a judge considers these facts to decide if your intent is to make NY State a " fixed and permanent " residence. The DMV will not decide if you are a resident of NY State, if you must get a NY State driver license, or if you must register your vehicle in NY State. According to this law , students from other states or from other nations who attend school in NY State are normally not considered residents of NY State.  Do it by mail:  Mail your completed registration application , additional documents and payment to a DMV office [2].  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Registration [11 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Pay insurance lapse civil penalty#1    Document :  Pay insurance lapse civil penalty [1]  Determine if you can pay  You can pay (and remove a suspension) if  your insurance lapse is for 90 days or less  You cannot pay if  you already paid a civil penalty in the past 36 months 3 years your insurance lapse is 91 days or more Your payment does not guarantee that the DMV will restore your registration, or close other suspensions or revocations you have. It is your responsibility to know if the DMV restored your registration before you drive the vehicle. You can check the status of your driving privilege and vehicle registrations through MyDMV [2]. The DMV will not automatically send you a new registration document in the mail. If you do not want to pay the civil penalty , you can surrender your vehicle registration and plates [3] until the suspension period ends.  Online  You need a Suspension Order that states you are eligible to pay a civil penalty see a sample insurance letter [4]. Your order will have the 10 digit document ID number your vehicle plate number vehicle type (also called class e.g. PAS, COM) the first 3 letters of the registrant s name Pay insurance lapse civil penalty online [5 ]  By mail  Follow the instructions on your suspension order. Send the bottom part of the order along with a certified check, personal check, or money order payable to Commissioner of Motor Vehicles for the penalty to NYS Department of Motor Vehicles Financial Security Bureau PO BOX 2725 Albany NY 12220 - 0725  At a DMV office  You may pay this fee in person at any DMV office with a certified check, personal check or money order, payable to Commissioner of Motor Vehicles.  How much do I need to pay?  Your Suspension Order from the DMV shows how much you must pay. The amount depends on how long you did not have insurance coverage. Your payment is calculated based on the following table Example 1 : If your insurance lapse is 25 days , you may pay a civil penalty of $200 $8 per day for 25 days and not turn in your plates , or you must surrender your plates and serve a registration suspension of 25 days. Example 2 : If your insurance lapse is 90 days , you may pay a total penalty of $900 $8 per day for the first 30 days = $240; plus $10 per day for 31 days to 60 = $300; plus $12 per day for days 61 - 90 = $360 and not turn in your plates ; or you must surrender your plates and serve a registration suspension of 90 days  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Insurance [6 ]  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : In-transit vehicle permits (temporary registrations)#3    Document :  To bring a vehicle from another state to register in New York  If you purchase a vehicle in another state , you will need to go through that state's DMV office to get a temporary plate and registration to transport the vehicle to New York. Once the vehicle is in New York , you will need to follow the steps to register and title a vehicle [1] here.  To bring a vehicle purchased in New York State to another state  You can apply for an in - transit permit, which will allow you to transport a vehicle from a location in New York State to a location outside of New York State.  To bring a vehicle purchased in New York State to another part of New York State to register  You can apply for an an in - transit permit, which will allow you to transport a vehicle from a location within New York to another location within New York.  In-transit permits duration  They are valid 30 days.  Fee  $12.50.  Apply for an in-transit permit  Bring these items to a DMV office [2 ] a completed In - Transit Permit / Title Application pdf [3] MV-82ITP proof of ownership 1 proof of identity 2 payment for in - transit permit fee 3 proof of insurance 4 Print this checklist [4 ]  Acceptable proof of insurance if you are not a resident of New York State  If you are a resident of New York State , you may submit one of these proofs of insurance name of insurance company policy number and expiration date effective date insured's name and address vehicle information including year, make and VIN the name and address of the producer the name and address of the insured the name of the insurance company the effective and expiration dates of the policy a complete vehicle description including year, make and VIN Any Auto All Owned Autos Scheduled Autos  Not all vehicles need proof of insurance to apply for a vehicle permit  Vehicles that do not require insurance in New York State (e.g. light trailers) are not required to present proof of insurance.  Original insurance cards  All Insurance ID Cards must be original documents. A letter or an insurance binder can be an original document or a fax sent to a DMV office by the insurer. Photocopies are not acceptable.  Non-New York State Residents can apply  You do not need to be a New York State resident to apply for an in - transit permit. Proof of ownership can be Certificate of Title MV-999 Manufacturer s Certificate of Origin MCO Manufacturer s Statement of Origin MSO Statement of Ownership MV-51B Findings DMV Administrative Hearing Transferable Registration You must be at least 16 years old except for ATV and boat registrations. driver license learner permit , or non - driver ID card If you don t have one of these , see other kinds of proof [5] you can use. For intrastate permits , you may also need to pay title or lien fees and sales tax. These proofs of insurance are acceptable NY State Insurance ID Card FS -20 or FS-21 Insurance Certificate For Hire Passenger Vehicle FH-1 or FH-2 Corporate Surety Bond For Hire Passenger Vehicle FH-1B or FH-2B The preparation date must be 7 days or less from the date of your application for the vehicle permit. Additionally , the Temporary Insurance ID Card FS-75 must have " in - transit " or " in - transit permit " printed or written on it , and you must provide an In - transit Cancellation Authorization form this is not a DMV form from the insurance agent or broker who prepared the card. See sample insurance documents [6]. 
title : How to replace a registration#1    Document :  How to replace a registration[1]  The fee to replace your vehicle registration document and windshield sticker is $3.00, unless you are also replacing plates. If you need to replace vehicle plates or documents that were lost in a crime , you must apply by mail or at a DMV office. See lost or stolen plates [2] for more information.  Online and print a temporary document  You can replace registration documents online for most vehicles. You computer must accept cookies.  Sorry, you cannot replace registration documents online for  vehicles older than model year 1973 boats , snowmobiles or All - Terrain Vehicles ATVs vehicles with an expired, surrendered, suspended or revoked registration motorcycles , or other vehicles with plate stickers trailers transporter vehicles vehicles registered through DMV's International Registration Bureau  Temporary registration  You can download and print a temporary registration in PDF format that is valid for 10 days. We also attach a copy to your confirmation email. You will get your new registration document by mail within 10 days.  You need  vehicle plate or registration number registration class ZIP Code for the address on your registration credit or pinless debit card for payment Replace a registration online [4 ]  By mail  Send these items a completed Application for Duplicate / Renewal Registration PDF [5] MV-82D a photocopy of your NY State driver license, permit, non - driver ID, or other proof of identity [6 ] a check / money order for $3 payable to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles New York State Department of Motor VehiclesUtica Processing CenterP.O. Box 359Utica , NY 13503 You can t update your name by mail. If your address changed , write your new address on the application.  At a DMV office  Use the Application for Duplicate / Renewal Registration MV-82D , and bring these items to a DMV office [7 ] a completed Application for Duplicate / Renewal Registration PDF [5] MV-82D your NY State driver license , permit , non - driver ID , or other proof of identity [6 ] $ 3 for payment of the fee  If your address changed  Your mailing address on DMV files must be current. You cannot change your address during the transaction. You can first change your address online [8]and then renew. Note: If you file a request with the US Postal Service USPS to forward mail there , is no guarantee that the USPS will forward all DMV documents to the new address.  If your name changed  You cannot change your name during this transaction. Your new document will display your previous name. If you recently changed your name , read the instructions to change your name or other information on a registration or title [9]. See special instructions to replace plates that were lost, stolen or destroyed [2 ] order new Empire Gold plates [10 ] order personalized or custom plates [11 ] Cookies are simple text files stored on your web browser to provide a means of distinguishing among users of this website. The use of cookies is a standard practice among Internet websites. To better serve you , we occasionally use " session cookies " to enhance or customize your visit to this website. Session cookies can be created automatically on the device you use to access this state agency website but do not contain personal information and do not compromise your privacy or security . We may use the cookie feature to store a randomly generated identifier on the device you use to access this website. A session cookie is erased during operation of your browser or when your browser is closed. The software and hardware you use to access the website allows you to refuse new cookies or delete existing cookies . Refusing or deleting these cookies may limit your ability to take advantage of some features of this website.  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Registration [12 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Moving out of New York State#3    Document :  What do I need to do with my plates if I move out of New York?  If you want to register your vehicle in another state , you must surrender your vehicle registration and plates to the New York DMV [1].  Is out-of-state insurance acceptable for a vehicle registered in New York?  No. If your vehicle is registered in New York State , you must have New York insurance coverage. We will never accept out - of - state insurance coverage of any type for a vehicle registered in New York.  Can I obtain out-of-state insurance and keep my vehicle registered in New York?  No. If you replace your New York State insurance coverage with out - of - state insurance , your valid insurance coverage will lapse. We will suspend your registration and may suspend your driver license. We will take actions against your New York State registration and driver license even if you move out of New York. This can affect your ability to have a driver license in your new state. If you register your vehicle in another state , immediately surrender your vehicle registration and plates to the DMV [1]. You must surrender your vehicle registration and plates to the DMV before the New York State liability insurance is cancelled. If you register your vehicle in another state and surrender the New York vehicle plates to the New York DMV , you can get insurance in the other state. Your insurance must meet the requirements of the state where your vehicle is registered.  I registered my vehicle out of state, and then I received a letter from the DMV about a lapse of insurance on the vehicle. What can I do?  Please send us a copy of your out of state registration in your name along with a copy of your out of state insurance if available to : NYS Department of Motor Vehicles Financial Security Bureau PO BOX 2725 Albany NY 12220 - 0725 All proof must include the name and address of the registrant, and the year, make and vehicle identification number VIN of the vehicle. We will apply your proof to the NY record to reduce or clear a lapse of insurance coverage reported by your insurance company. 
title : Renew a CDL#1    Document :  Renew a CDL[1]  WARNING: Your Standard CDL will not be accepted as proof of identification to board a domestic flight after October 1 , 2020. If you plan to travel and don't have a Passport , we recommend you upgrade to an Enhanced or REAL ID when you renew. Learn more about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [2]. Don't delay! Get your Enhanced or REAL ID today.  You must renew at a DMV office  You must come to a DMV office [3] to renew a commercial driver license CDL or commercial license permit CLP. Complete this guide to make sure you have the proofs of identification you need before coming. Find your proofs [4 ] You will receive a temporary license to use until your new license arrives by mail within 10 business days.  What you need to renew a CDL  In addition meeting the requirements to renew any type of driver license [5], to renew your CDL , you will need to Meet the federal medical certification requirements [6]. You will need to indicate compliance when you answer the required questions on the MV-2CDL which is included with your renewal notice. Have proof of your legal presence in the United States on DMV records. The DMV Document Guide [4] lists all acceptable legal presence and New York State residence proof documents. Please note: You must provide us the original documents (not photocopies), and documents submitted as proof of residence must have your current residence address on it (no P.O. Box permitted). If you are a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident , you will only need to provide this proof on the first original, amendment, reciprocity or renewal application on or after June 18 , 2015. We will retain the proof on your driving record. If you are temporary visitor , you will need to provide proof of legal presence in the U.S. with every application. Your new document will have the legend NON - DOMICILED and also TEMPORARY VISITOR and the expiration date of your legal status in the United States printed on it. If you indicate the driving types NI Non - excepted Interstate or NA Non - excepted Intrastate on your renewal , you must provide a legible copy of your current USDOT Medical Examiner s Certificate to DMV if it is not already on file. Please see Federal Requirements for Commercial Driver License CDL Applicants pdf [7] MV-44.5 to help you determine your driving type. Per new federal regulations , the DMV will check for any open suspensions or revocations you may have in any state. If you have an open suspension or revocation , we will reject your application.  Renewal Fees  The fees listed include the photo document fee and the supplemental Metropolitan Commuter Transportation District MCTD fee, if required. If you have any other class combined with a motorcycle Class M or MJ example: AM , add an additional $8.00 to the fee above. If you have an endorsement of H or X , you must pass the hazardous materials knowledge test at a DMV office within 2 years before your renewal and pay an additional fee of $5 for the test. Residents of the following counties must pay a supplemental Metropolitan Commuter Transportation District MCTD fee: Bronx, Kings Brooklyn, New York Manhattan, Queens, Richmond Staten Island; Dutchess, Nassau, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Suffolk and Westchester. The MCTD fee is $1.00 for every 6 months the permit or driver license will be in effect. For an 8-year driver license , the MCTD fee is $16.  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Commercial Drivers [8 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Federal REAL ID#3    Document :  What REAL ID means to you  Beginning on October 1 , 2020 , the federal government will require your driver license, permit or ID card to be REAL ID compliant if you wish to use it as identification to board a domestic flight within the U.S., or enter military bases and certain federal facilities. Enhanced driver license, permit, or non - driver ID [1] and valid U.S. Passport are already REAL ID compliant and can be used to board a flight. Please visit www.dhs.gov [2] for more REAL ID information.  The REAL ID Act  Passed by Congress in 2005 , the REAL ID Act establishes minimum security standards for state - issued driver licenses, permits and ID cards. The Act also prohibits federal agencies, like the Transportation Security Administration TSA, from accepting cards for official purposes from states that do not meet these standards.  New York State DMV began issuing REAL ID licenses, permits, and ID cards on October 30, 2017  You can get a REAL ID at any time , but you will need to go to a DMV Office. You cannot get a REAL ID online, by phone, or through mail.  You MUST bring to the office the following original or certified proof documents:  Proof of identity , such as valid license, birth certificate or passport, with your full first, middle if applicable and last name. This name , as it appears on your proof of identity , will be displayed on your card as required by federal law. Proof of Social Security Number or Social Security Number ineligibility. If you a valid NY license, permit or ID card , you must bring your original social security card or W-2 with full SSN. If you a New York State driver license or identification card , you must bring your Social Security Card or a letter from the Social Security Administration proving your ineligibility to have a social security number. If you lost your Social Security Card , you must get a duplicate before you come to the DMV. The Social Security Administration website has more information on obtaining a duplicate card [4]. Proof of your date of birth. Proof of U.S. citizenship , lawful permanent residency or temporary lawful status in the U.S. Two different proofs of New York State residence such as utility bill, bank statement or mortgage statement (P.O. Box not acceptable). This address will be displayed on your card. If the name on your license , permit , or non - driver ID application does not match the name on your identity, lawful status, and social security proofs you must bring in court or government issued proof documenting the event causing your name change such as a marriage license , divorce decree , adoption , or court order document. The application process also requires the DMV to take a new photo. Complete this guide to find out exactly what proof documents are needed before going to an office. Find your proofs [5 ]  Cost for a REAL ID  There is no additional cost to get a REAL ID. All normal transaction fees still apply. If you want to apply for an Enhanced Driver License [1] or Enhanced ID Card [6], there is an additional $30 fee.  Sample of Enhanced, REAL ID, and Standard License  Learn more about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [7].  Getting a REAL ID is mandatory but is encouraged  A REAL ID is optional and is not needed for the following : Being licensed to drive Voting or registering to vote Entering Federal facilities that do not require a person to present identification Applying for or receiving Federal benefits Accessing health or life preserving services including hospitals and health clinics, law enforcement, or constitutionally protected activities including a defendant s access to court proceedings Participating in law enforcement proceedings or investigations If you decide you do not want a REAL ID or Enhanced document , please be advised that any license, permit or ID card issued after October 30 , 2017 will be marked Not for Federal Purposes. If you have a U.S. Passport , it can be used for identification, boarding a plane for domestic and international flights, and entry into a federal building or military base.  Under 18 years old  TSA does not currently require children under 18 years old to provide identification when traveling with a companion within the United States. The companion will need acceptable identification. Please visit www.tsa.gov [8] for more information. 
title : New CDL testing and commercial learner permit (CLP) standards#3    Document :  Overview  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration FMCSA [1] has amended commercial driver license standards. This regulation is referred to as the' CDL Permit Rule' and mandated compliance by July 8 , 2015. The New York State DMV implemened the rules in phases, from April through July of 2015. We refer to the Commercial Learner Permit as " CLP ", and the Commercial Driver License as " CDL. " The changes are listed in order of implementation by the New York State DMV.  Phase 1 - April 2015  CDL skills testing changes  When you schedule or update a CDL Skills Test road test appointment , you will not be able to schedule an appointment within the first 14 days from the issuance of the CLP.  National suspension and revocation screening  The CDL Permit Rule broadens the criteria used during CLP and CDL license applications to check for open suspensions and revocations in other states. New York State will reject any application where a driver has any open suspension or revocation in any state.  Phase 2 - May 2015  Medical Certification changes  The New York State DMV will send CLP holders a notification if their medical certification status becomes " Not Certified. " Once we send the notification , we will cancel the CLP if the CLP holder does not re - certify within 55 days. We can send employers a notification of these status changes if they subscribe to the NY State License Event Notification Service LENS [2]. We will send passenger carriers enrolled in the 19-A system notifications of CLP cancellation events.  Phase 3 - June 2015  Endorsement and restriction changes  New CDL restrictions defined below by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration FMCSA may affect CLP holders when taking a Skills Test in a vehicle without full airbrakes and/or a manual transmission. E - No Manual Transmission Equipped CMV L - No Airbrake Equipped CMV Z - No Full Airbrake Equipped CMV restrictions If the vehicle used for your skills test has : An automatic transmission , and this is your first road test in a commercial motor vehicle CMV , you will be given an E restriction. No form of airbrakes , and this is your first road test in a CMV , you will be given an L restriction. If you have a CDL with an L restriction and you test in a vehicle with air over hydraulic brakes , you will be upgraded from an L to a Z restriction. Also , please note that : CLPs will no longer be issued with the Double / Triple Trailer T endorsement. The T endorsement can be issued only to a driver holding a CDL. CLPs issued with a Passenger P or School Bus S endorsement will automatically get a new federally mandated " No Passengers in CMV Bus " P restriction. CLPs issued with a Tank Vehicles N endorsement will automatically get a federally mandated " No Cargo in CMV Tank Vehicle " X restriction. The P and X restrictions are issued for the CLP only. The CDL that is issued after all required tests have been passed will not have the P or X restrictions. The CDL Permit Rule added 5 new restrictions, which required New York State to change the letter assigned to existing restrictions. These restriction changes go into effect June 4 , 2015. We will send drivers a new CLP and/or CDL document with these changes printed on them after their next CLP or CDL application.  Application requirement changes  1) All CLP and CDL transactions, with the exception of replacements (duplicates) will require proof of legal presence in the United States. Drivers who can prove U.S. citizenship or lawful permanent residency will only need to provide this proof on the on or after June 18 , 2015. A record of this verification will be retained on the driver s record. Drivers with temporary visitor status will need to provide proof of legal presence in the U.S. with. Important : Because the federal regulations require submission of additional proofs in person , drivers cannot renew their CLP and/or CDL by mail. CLP and CDL documents for drivers who are U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents i.e., temporary visitors will have the legend NON - DOMICILED printed on documents issued on or after June 18 , 2015. The legend TEMPORARY VISITOR and the expiration date of their legal status documentation will continue to be displayed on the CLP and/or CDL document. 2) For all CLP and CDL transactions, with the exception of replacements, we will require proof of New York State residence. Proof of residence is required every time for all drivers. The DMV Document Guide [3] lists all acceptable legal presence and New York State residence proof documents. PLEASE NOTE : You must provide us the original documents not photocopies for both requirements above.  Commercial document changes  The following federally mandated changes will be made to commercial documents CL documents will have the warning " VALID ONLY WHEN ACCOMPANIED BY A NYS LICENSE printed on them interim non - photo licenses and permits will only be valid for 60 days from the date they are issued  Phase 4 - July 2015  Suspensions and revocations (sanctions)  New York State is now required to apply federally mandated commercial suspensions and revocations to CLP holders. Federally mandated commercial suspensions and revocations that affect a driver's commercial privilege will now run consecutive one to follow the other with any other open commercial suspension or revocation on record.  New revocations  New federally mandated one year commercial revocations will be issued for drivers that are found guilty, or convicted of, falsifying, misrepresenting, or fraud in connection with an application for a CLP / CDL self - certification driving type Medical Examiner's Certificate  Commercial document changes  The following federally mandated changes will be made to commercial documents CLPs will be valid for only 180 days with one renewal for an additional 180 days, after which the holder will have to apply for a new CLP, including retaking any required knowledge tests New York State will void and return an applicant s current CLP or CDL document when issuing a new CLP / CDL document  Employer responsibilities expanded to CLP  Section 140 of the New York State Transportation Law is amended to provide that no employer will allow an employee to operate a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which the operator does not have a valid CLP or CDL does not have a CLP or CDL with the proper class or endorsement violates any restriction on the CLP or CDL has a suspended, revoked, or disqualified CLP or CDL has more than one CLP or CDL  Reference  CDL Permit Rule  You can find the 'CDL Permit Rule' in its entirety in 49 CFR Parts 383, 384, and 385 and as posted on the Federal Register (Vol. 76, No. 89 / Monday, May 9, 2011 / Rules and Regulations).  Other resources  DMV License Event Notification Service LENS [2 ] New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law [4] go to Laws of New York and scroll down to VAT Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration FMCSA [1 ] 
title : Open a driving school#3    Document : A Driving School License is required of any person, firm, association or corporation engaged in the business of giving instruction in the operation of motor vehicles or motorcycles for hire. The process of opening a driving school involves several steps. These steps are also outlined in the form Opening a Driving School [1] MV-299.2. To open a driving school , you will need to meet DMV s requirements below for your place of business a qualified, experienced instructor see below to meet DMV s requirements for records receipts, etc. and record - keeping authority to operate a business in New York State and this location  Requirements  You must receive approval from DMV for the use of the name for your driving school see also Request for Approval of Driving School Name [2] before you submit an application. be at least 50 square feet, which is accessible by your customers be in a suitable building see Part 76.2 for details be at least 1,500 feet from a DMV office or road test area Applicant must be given a receipt for all payments hours of operation schedule of fees NOTE: If your school will teach the Pre - licensing course , you must also have a classroom that meets DMV s requirements see also Request for Premises Check [3]. you must have an experienced instructor who holds a valid instructor s card, and has at least 1,000 hours of experience as a behind - the - wheel instructor. you must keep appropriate records. you must have a vehicle used for training and testing students that meets DMV s requirements see also List of Driving School Vehicles [4]. All vehicles except motorcycles must have Student Driver signs and be equipped with dual - control brakes and mirrors for the instructors use.  How to apply  After you receive approval of your business name from DMV , you must submit the following items to DMV your Request for Approval of Driving School Name [2] form MV-299.3 that shows your Driving School name was approved by the DMV see " Driving School Name Approval " above a completed Driving School License Application [5] form MV-521. You must list at least one Driving School Instructor who holds a valid Driving School Instructor Certificate MV-524 and has a minimum of 1,000 hours of behind - the - wheel instruction experience the application fee of $50.00 non - refundable. Make your check or money order payable to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles ". We cannot accept cash or credit cards a completed Personal History [6] form MV-521.1 for each owner, partner, corporate officer, agent, employee and major stockholder 20% or more of stock listed on your Driving School Application MV-521 if you have employees , you must submit proof of current Workers Compensation and Disability Benefits Insurance Coverage. See the instructions on the Driving School License Application [5] MV-521 for more information if you do not have employees , you must submit a completed CE-200 available from the NY State Worker's Compensation Board. This form is to show a government agency that NY State Workers Compensation and Disability Benefits insurance are not required a X-201 , a X-74 or DOS-1025. See Opening a Driving School [1] MV-299.2 for more details a copy of the lease for your proposed place of business a Certificate of Occupancy for your proposed place of business a copy of the receipt provided to clients as required by Section 76.8 of the Commissioner's Regulations [7]. See also Receipts and Contracts [8] MV-299.4 a copy of the Student Record Card as required by Section 76.8 of the Commissioner's Regulations [7 ] a schedule of fees for all services your driving school will provide a list of all vehicles to be used in training and testing. See also List of Driving School Vehicles [4] MV-527 an Application for Driving School Instructor Certificate [9] MV-523 for each instructor Send all required items to : New York State Department of Motor VehiclesBureau of Driver Training Programs6 Empire State Plaza , Room 327Albany , NY 12228 473 - 7174  After application is submitted  After your application is reviewed by DMV in Albany , it is sent to your local Motor Vehicle office. Your local Motor Vehicle office will schedule an inspection. When the inspector visits your location , be prepared to show the original lease the original business certificate and/or corporate papers and/or filing receipt a sample customer receipt and student record card signs and advertising see Commissioner Regulations Part 76.21 [7 ] a permanent, bound book or record - keeping system a filing cabinet If your school intends to offer the Pre - Licensing Course , you will also need to have the classroom inspected. The classroom requirements are listed on the Request for Premise Check [3] form MV-279, and include If the classroom facilities are combined with office space , the combined total must be at least 200 square feet the classroom must be clean, comfortable, and easily accessible to students with disabilities adequate seating for each student adequate heating , ventilation , and lighting rest room facilities easily accessible to all students appropriate chalkboard , flipcharts , and audio / visual equipment  After approval  After your business location is inspected and approved , we will notify you that you need to pay the driving school license fee of $50. Your new license will be valid for one year. Once we receive the driving school license fee , we will mail your Driving School License which must be posted in plain sight in your place of business and a Driving School Instructor Certificate for each of your instructors. If you have any questions about these requirements or documentation , please call Driver Training Programs at 1 - 518 - 473 - 7174. 
title : Automatic license and registration extension for military personnel#3    Document : Pursuant to Executive Order No. 2 by Governor Andrew M. Cuomo , all licenses and registrations for New York State military personnel returning from active military duty relating to the war on terrorism and military action in Iraq will automatically be extended. The following information will help minimize any potential inconvenience upon their return.  What happens if my NY State driver license expires while I am on active duty?  NY State law automatically extends license privileges throughout active military service for up to 6 months after discharge or separation. Discharged or separated military personnel may renew an expired NY State license up to two years after the extended expiration. No more than 30 months may have passed since discharge 6-month extension plus 24 -month grace period. Active military personnel must show proof of date of entry into military service. If the NY State license was valid at any time during your military service , your license can be renewed. A discharged serviceman must show a Certificate of Discharge, DD-214. You must have been discharged within the past 30 months. If the NY State license was valid at any time during your military service , your license can be renewed.  Am I required to notify DMV of my entry into the military?  While not required , it is suggested that military personnel file a Notification of Military Service pdf [1] MV -75 to ensure that the license record is not purged once the expiration date has passed.  What happens if my NY State registration expires while I am on active duty?  Registrations are extended for up to 60 days from return to New York State. This extension applies only to vehicles registered to military personnel. You must show proof of military service or separation. Liability insurance coverage must be maintained at all times, including the period of extension.  What happens if I had a lapse of insurance coverage during active duty?  You are required to maintain continuous coverage or surrender your plates before deployed. If you were unable to do so , DMV has a procedure in place to exempt you from administrative actions upon your return. You must provide a notarized statement that the vehicle was not used during the time in question, a copy of your military ID, proof of current insurance or surrender of plates, and signed and dated copies of deployment and return papers, or DD-214 if separated from service. You can present these documents at any DMV office, or mail them to : Insurance Services BureauNYS DMV6 Empire State Plaza, Room 332BAlbany, NY 12228 If you have any additional questions , please contact the DMV Call Center [2]. 
title : How insurance premium reduction works#3    Document : The Point and Insurance Reduction Program PIRP is a DMV - approved course designed to teach motorists critical information about Highway Safety and Accident Prevention.  How do I get the insurance premium reduction?  The course sponsor will mail you a completion certificate within 45 business days after you complete the classroom course or 14 business days after you complete an online course. If you present your certificate to your insurance company or agent within 90 days after course completion , your liability and collision premium reduction will begin immediately, retroactive to the date you completed the course. If you present your certificate more than 90 days after course completion , the insurer may issue the premium discount effective from the date presented. If you do not receive your certificate within eight weeks after completion , immediately contact the program sponsor. You must take the course once every 36 months to maintain insurance reduction benefits.  Will the PIRP course prevent my insurance company from raising my premiums?  No. PIRP does not prevent general premium increases, or premium increases due to violations or accidents. It provides a 10% reduction for three years, from the base rate of your current liability, no - fault and collision premiums.  What if more than one person named on a policy completes the PIRP course?  Only the principal operator can receive the 10% reduction.  Will youthful drivers and drivers participating in the assigned risk pool receive the insurance premium discount?  Yes. Any insured driver who is the principal operator and completes a Point & Insurance Reduction Program course will receive the 10% reduction.  If a youthful driver is already receiving a driver education reduction, will the PIRP discount also be applied?  Contact your insurance company or agent to learn if both reductions will be given at the same time.  Learn how to reduce driving record points. [1]  
title : Get a vehicle registration or title record (abstract)#1    Document :  Get a vehicle registration or title record (abstract)[1]  What are vehicle registration and title record abstracts?  See a definition of vehicle registration and title record abstracts [2] issued by the New York DMV.  How do I get my vehicle registration record abstract?  You can order your vehicle registration abstract by using form Request for DMV Records PDF [3] MV-15. Include these items with your request your plate number or Vehicle Identification Number VIN if you do not know your plate number or VIN , provide your name and date of birth DOB, as well as the vehicle make and year a photocopy of your driver license or other government issued photo ID card as proof of identity a personal check or money order payable to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles " to pay the search fee of $10.00 Mail to the address listed on the form.  How do I get my vehicle title record abstract?  You can order your title record abstract by using form Request for DMV Records PDF [3] MV-15. Include these items with your request the Vehicle Identification Number VIN if you do not know the VIN , we may be able to locate the record using our registration files - provide the name and date of birth DOB of the registrant, as well as the year and make for the vehicle a photocopy of your driver license or other government issued photo ID card as proof of identity a personal check or money order payable to " Commissioner of Motor Vehicles " to pay the search fee of $10.00 Mail to the address listed on the form.  How do I get another person's records?  You must submit a Request for DMV Records PDF [3] MV-15 and certify that you have a permissible use under the Driver's Privacy Protection Act DPPA to see the personal information of another person on DMV records. See Driver's Privacy Protection Act DPPA [4] for more information.  Do it by mail:  You can order your vehicle or title record abstracts by mail using the Request for DMV Records [3] MV-15.  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  DMV Records [5 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Sharing your information#3    Document :  Does DMV sell driver license and vehicle information to others?  Yes. DMV makes driver license and vehicle registration information available for a fee using three methods: contract sales, pay - per - search and over - the - counter. Anyone who accesses DMV information must comply with the federal Driver s Privacy Protection Act [1] DPPA. The DPPA was enacted by Congress after a careful debate about why states should be allowed to share DMV data. The DPPA prohibits states from disclosing a driver s personal information to anyone who does not have what the DPPA considers a permissible use. The DPPA defines personal information as an individual s photograph, social security number, driver identification number, name, address, telephone number and medical information. Information on crashes, driving violations, and driver's status is not considered personal information. Social security numbers are sold.  1. Contract Sales  In accordance with the federal DPPA and NY State law , DMV sells registration and vehicle data through an open procurement process every two years. The successful bidders cannot use DMV information for any purposes other than those in connection with the issuance of a manufacturer s warranty, safety recall or similar notices important things that keep the public safe. The data can be used for statistical compilations and analysis, which do not contain any personal, identifying information. The DMV does not permit successful bidders to use the data for surveys, marketing, or solicitations. DMV collects approximately $2.2 million per year from contract sales.  2. Pay-Per-Search  To access DMV data for legitimate DPPA purposes DMV offers a pay - per - search service. In accordance with NY State law , anyone requesting access using this method must apply to DMV and sign an agreement identifying their permissible use under the DPPA. Upon verification and approval of their application , a search account is established for the requestor. The majority of search account holders are insurance companies, who must rate and monitor drivers, and investigate claims, and employers who are required to monitor their employees driving records. Each search costs $7 and is logged by DMV. Search account holders must have a DPPA permissible use for every search performed , and DMV monitors their compliance through an audit program. DMV collects approximately $58 million per year from pay - per - search sales.  3. Over-the-counter  Anyone can visit a State or County DMV office to purchase a driver license record as long as the requestor provides sufficient and specific information that identifies one and only one record, and provides a DPPA permissible use. Each over - the - counter search is $10. DMV collects approximately $3.0 million per year from over - the - counter sales.  The benefits of sharing DMV information  The DMV information shared with bus companies, employers, insurance companies, researchers, and motor vehicle manufacturers, through each of the three sharing methods, makes our lives safer and more convenient. If this information were not made available traffic safety and commerce would be negatively impacted. A few examples of how DMV s information sharing programs benefit all of us are provided below.  School Bus Drivers  School districts and private school bus companies are required to know about their drivers driving history before they hire them to transport children and other passengers. Access to DMV information enables school bus companies to make informed decisions about whom to hire. Once hired , DMV requires bus operators to conduct regular searches of their drivers records to confirm nothing negative happens during their employment that would impact their ability to safely continue to drive school buses.  Hazardous Materials Drivers  This same scenario applies to businesses transporting hazardous materials. All of us want to know the driver of a vehicle hauling dangerous materials is qualified to drive, properly trained, and possesses a valid Commercial Driver License CDL. NY State laws require hazardous material companies to only hire and employ drivers who are qualified and have valid licenses. Employers must regularly obtain their employees license records from DMV.  Insurance Companies  When you are shopping for automobile insurance on - line , you expect a rate quote within minutes. Insurance companies are able to provide this convenient service because they have direct pay - per - search access to DMV information. They check your driving history to issue an immediate rate quote. If companies could not conduct these searches , insurance companies would require you to purchase your driver record and send it to them before issuing you a quote. This practice would make it more difficult for customers to shop for affordable rates, and could increase the potential for fraudulently altered or unreliable driver records.  Motor Vehicle Manufacturers  Purchasing a used car does not automatically register you as an owner of that vehicle with the manufacturer. Manufacturers rely on DMV s contract sales program to find and notify current owners of vehicles affected by safety recalls. Recalls do not only jeopardize the safety of the owner / operator of the affected vehicle , they could also affect the safety of every other person sharing the road with that potentially unsafe vehicle. These are just a few examples of how DMV s information sharing programs are critical to improving public safety and making everyone s life more convenient. 
title : Pay suspension termination fee#1    Document :  Pay suspension termination fee[1]  A suspension means your driver license or privilege to drive is taken away for a period of time before it is returned. There are two types of suspensions.  Definite suspension  A definite suspension has a clear beginning and end date. 1 The suspension termination fee for a definite suspension is currently $50 2, unless the suspension was for breaking the NYS Zero Tolerance alcohol law. The suspension termination fee for this offense is $100.  Indefinite suspension  An indefinite suspension means you must do something such as answer a traffic ticket before the suspension can be cleared. 3 By law , if you receive a definite suspension order from DMV , you must pay a suspension termination fee before your driver license or privilege to drive can be restored.  Pay online  To pay a definite suspension online , you must provide your name or DMV ID Number Client ID Number from your NYS driver license, learner permit or non - driver photo ID card see sample driver license [2 ] your date of birth and gender the last four digits of your Social Security Number Your name and address on DMV records must be correct. Your payment does not guarantee that we will restore your driver license. There may be other problems on your record. It is your responsibility to know if your driver license or driving privilege is valid before you drive a motor vehicle. Pay suspension termination fee online [3 ]  At a DMV office  You can pay the suspension termination fee at the office or offices shown on your suspension order.  By mail  In some cases , you can pay by mail. If the suspension termination fee can be mailed , you will find instructions on your suspension order.  Common questions  Can I pay more than one definite suspension online?  Yes. You can pay up to 10 suspension termination fees in one day.  After I pay the fee, how can I check the status of my driver license or driving privilege?  You can sign up for a MyDMV account [4] and use the My License service. If you need a certified copy of your driving records , you can order a copy of your driver record [5].  When will I get my license back?  A definite suspension lasts until your suspension period ends. If you pay the suspension termination fee before the suspension period has ended , we will mail your license to you within 3 business days after the suspension period ends. 6 We will not mail your license to you if your driver license has expired you have a commercial driver license CDL 7 you have a conditional or restricted license 8 you have other suspensions, revocations or problems with your driver license  How do I know if my license was mailed?  Once you pay the suspension termination fee , wait for 3 business days after the suspension period ends and then use our Photo ID Document Mailing Status service [6]. A definite suspension means your driver license or privilege to drive is taken away for a certain amount of time. If you have a definite suspension , your suspension order will tell you how long the suspension period will last. You cannot drive until the suspension period ends, you pay a suspension termination fee of $50 and have valid driver license. Common reasons for definite suspensions are you did not have automobile liability insurance you were convicted of an alcohol or drugged driving charge you received too many traffic tickets in a certain amount of time you did not follow the rules for junior drivers If the effective date of your suspension order is before July 6 , 2009 , the suspension termination fee is $25. An indefinite suspension means your driver license or privilege to drive was taken away because you failed to do something. Your driver license or privilege to drive will remain suspended until you comply with the instructions on your suspension order. You may also be required to pay a suspension termination fee. Common reasons for indefinite suspensions are you did not answer a traffic ticket you did not pay a traffic ticket fine you did not file a motor vehicle accident report you failed to pay child support You can confirm or change your address online , but you must create a MyDMV account first [4]. If you need to change your name , you must go to a DMV office. You can check the status of your driver license and driving privilege online if you sign up for a MyDMV account [4] and use our MyLicense service. If you need proof that DMV removed your suspension , you can order a certified copy of your driving record [5]. If you surrendered your license , DMV will mail you a new document, not the one you surrendered. Although you can pay suspension termination fees online , you must go to a DMV office to get your commercial driver license back. Although you can pay suspension termination fees online , you must go to a DMV office to get your full driver license back if you have you have a conditional or restricted license.  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Tickets [7 ]  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Proof of ownership is not available#3    Document :  Titled vehicles  If the seller has a title certificate that was transferred to the seller by the previous owner, and the title certificate displays the name of the previous owner , the seller must get a title certificate that displays the name of the seller. Use the Application for Title Only PDF [1] MV-82TON form. Follow the instructions carefully. Do not use the MV-82TON form to apply for both a vehicle registration and a title certificate at the same time replace a lost title certificate If the seller cannot get a title certificate that displays their name , they can contact the DMV [2] to get more information.  Non-titled vehicles  Replace a NY State transferable registration  If the NY State transferable registration is lost , the current owner can apply for a duplicate registration document at a DMV office. Use the Application for Registration or Title PDF [3] MV-82 and the instructions for Registering / Titling a Vehicle in New York State PDF [4] MV-82.1. The current owner can transfer the ownership with the duplicate registration, even if the registration is expired must also complete a bill of sale see Get proof of ownership at purchase [5 ]  Use the Certification of NY State Registration for Transfer of Non-Titled Vehicle  If the NY State transferable registration is lost and the DMV cannot issue a duplicate , the current owner can apply for Certification of NY State Registration for Transfer of Non - Titled Vehicle Form MV-353. The DMV must verify that the vehicle was registered to the current owner. The current owner must provide proof of identity see proofs of identity [6]. There is a fee $10 for form MV-353. The current owner can use form MV-353 and a bill of sale [7].  Use the Statement of Ownership (PDF)[8] (MV-51B)  If the DMV cannot issue a transferable registration or form MV-353 the registration applicant must show other evidence of ownership. For example , the applicant can show an old registration, an original Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin, or an original Manufacturer's Statement of Origin. If the proof is not available , the applicant can use the MV-51B for proof of ownership.  Use the Certification [Affidavit] of Sale or Transfer (PDF)[9] (MV-51) for 1972 or Older Vehicles or Any Other Non-Titled Vehicles  If the seller did not register the vehicle, the boat, the ATV or the snowmobile , they can give the buyer a completed MV-51 the original proof of ownership that they received from the previous owner a bill of sale If there are other previous owners , the seller must also give the buyer proofs of all previous transfers of ownership. The seller must also give the buyer a bill of sale.  Seller did not provide proof of ownership  Before you purchase a vehicle, boat, or snowmobile that is non - titled , make sure that you will receive the acceptable proofs of ownership. If you cannot get any of these proofs , you must contact the person that sold you the vehicle, boat or snowmobile to you and get a bill of sale , and a registration receipt or form MV-353 transferred to you write to the owner and request that they transfer the acceptable proof of ownership to you and mail the proof to you (we recommend you use certified mail to request a return receipt If you do not receive proof of ownership and the US Postal Service returns your certified letter , bring all of these items to a DMV office the returned certified letter in its envelope , not opened a pencil tracing , a photo or a police statement that shows the vehicle identification number that explains how you got the vehicle and how you tried to get acceptable proof of ownership a notarized affidavit other documents that are evidence of ownership - for example , a bill of sale or registration documents of the previous owners , or your cancelled check for payment a completed Statement of Ownership PDF [8] MV-51B - if you have had the vehicle, boat or snowmobile for less than one year and it was never registered by the previous owner, the previous owner must complete form MV-51B  Important  If your proof of ownership for a non - titled vehicle, boat, or snowmobile is not a NY State transferable registration , the local DMV office will issue a non - transferable registration. You can use the vehicle, boat or snowmobile with a non - transferable registration , but you cannot transfer your ownership to another person. The DMV Title Services Bureau will examine your proofs and will mail to you either a transferable registration, or a letter that explains why the DMV cannot issue a transferable registration. 
title : Adding and removing users#3    Document : When DMV creates a LENS roster , we issue a personal user ID and password to the applicant. If your organization has more than one person who may use LENS , we will gladly issue additional user IDs. Every LENS user may, and should, have their own personal logon. Please do not share your logon or password with others.  How do I add a user?  To get an additional user ID , please email us at [email protected] [2] with all of the following your 5-digit LENS roster number the user s NY State Driver license / non - driver ID number 1 the user's full name the business name the user's business address the user s business telephone number the user s business email address We will then send the user ID to the user s business email address, and mail the password to the user s personal license / ID mailing address. The password is the only LENS information that we ever send to a user s personal mailing address. We will not send a password to an office address.  How do I remove a user?  If a LENS user leaves your organization you can remove them by completing the following steps : log on to LENS visit the LENS Main Menu and select Customer Information select User Profile Maintenance click Search to list all of your LENS users find the departing user and check the corresponding Remove box. Click Process. If a LENS user leaves your organization and you cannot log in to LENS , please email us at [email protected] [2]. Identify the user and your LENS customer number. We will disable the departed user s access to your LENS roster.  How do I change users?  If someone is taking on another user s duties , follow the instructions in the topic above for requesting additional user IDs. Do not share the former user s ID and password with the new user. We will not provide support to any person who is using another person s user ID. We may revoke shared user IDs upon discovery. Register for LENS [3 ] Log in to LENS [1 ] If the license / ID is from another state , send : state, name, address, ID number and expiration date. 
title : Get a driver license#1    Document :  Get a driver license[1]  New York State residents age 16 or over can apply for a New York driver license.  Step 1: Determine what license class and type you need  Class : most people get a class D - Operator if 18 or older or a DJ - Junior Operator if under 18. See instructions to get a class A , B , C- commercial license CDL [2 ] class M - motorcycle license [3 ] class E - taxi or limousine livery license [4 ] Type : DMV offers 3 types of licenses. Learn about Enhanced, REAL ID and Standard documents [5].  Step 2: Get a learner permit  Before you can get a license , you must apply for a learner permitat DMV office and take the written test. You can prepare by reading the New York State Driver's Manual and taking practice tests. Learn how to get a learner permit [6].  Step 3: Practice driving and take a pre-licensing course  Once you have a learner permit , you must have supervised driving practice and you must take a pre - licensing course or a driver education course before you take your road test. Learn how to find a pre - licensing course and prepare for your road test [7].  Step 4: Pass a road test  If you pass your test , the examiner will give you an interim license that allows you to drive. Keep the interim license with your photo learner permit until your new license arrives in the mail in about 2 weeks. See how to schedule and take a road test [8].  Fees  Fees depend on what you are applying for, your age, and where you live. Use the fee chart to estimate your fee [9].  Replace, renew, restore, or exchange  Replace  See how to replace a license that was lost, stolen or destroyed [10].  Renew  See how to renew your license [11].  Restore  Learn how to restore your driving privilege and reapply for your license after a revocation [12].  Exchange out-of-state license  If you are from another state , see how to exchange your out - of - state driver license [13]. If you are coming here from another country overseas , see information about visiting or moving to New York [14].  If you are you under 18  Graduated license law  If you are under age 18 or are the parent of a driver under age 18 , it is very important that you understand the Graduated Driver License GDL Law and the restrictions on drivers under age 18 [15].  Senior license before 18  If you are 17 , you are eligible for a senior driver license Class D or M if you have a junior driver license or limited junior driver license and have completed a state - approved high school or college driver education course. To change your junior license to a senior license , bring your junior license and the Student Certificate of Completion MV-285 that you received from your instructor to any DMV office [16]. You must return your certificate and junior license to receive the senior license. If you do not change your junior license to a senior license , you are subject to the restrictions for junior drivers until you are age 18, even if you carry the completion certificate with you. You can also give your certificate with your junior permit to the license examiner at your road test.  When you turn 18  If you are not eligible for a senior license you turn 18 , you will automatically receive a senior license in the mail when you turn 18.  Additional information  Probationary period for new drivers  Once you pass your road test or restore a revoked driver license , you will have 6 month probationary period. During this time , your license will be suspended for 60 days if you are convicted of any the following speeding participating in a speed contest reckless driving following too closely use of a mobile telephone use of a portable electronic device for example a smart phone, tablet, GPS or MP3 player any 2 other moving violations After the suspension ends , you will have a second 6 month probation period. If you are convicted of one of the violations above or 2 other moving violations during the second probation period , your license will be revoked for at least 6 months. When the revocation ends , you must serve another a 6 month probationary period.  Your first license is valid for 5 years  For a Class D, Class DJ, and Class E driver license , the expiration date of your learner permit becomes the expiration date of your driver license. Together the learner permit and the driver license are valid for a maximum of 5 years. When you apply for a learner permit and a driver license , you pay the fee for the length of time that the documents are valid. For example , a learner permit that was issued to you in 2014 will be valid until your birthday in 2019. You pay the fee for a document that is valid for 5 years. If you pass your road test in 2017 , your driver license will expire in 2019. Your driver license keeps the expiration date of your learner permit. When you a change from a Class DJ junior license to a Class D senior license , the date does not change.  Drivers from other countries  You can drive in New York State with a valid driver license from another country. You don t need to apply for a New York State driver license unless you become a New York State resident. If you choose to get a New York driver license following the steps explained on this page , when you pass your road test , you must give your foreign driver license to the DMV road test examiner. The local DMV office will destroy your foreign driver license after 60 days. If you plan to return to your home country and will need your foreign driver license , ask the road test examiner how to make sure that your foreign driver license is not destroyed.  Still haven't found what you're looking for?  See a list of all driver license topics [17]. Definition of Resident per Section 250 5 of the NY State Vehicle and Traffic Law : " As used in this section, the term' resident' shall mean domiciliary, that is, one who lives in this state with the intention of making it a fixed and permanent abode. It shall be presumptive evidence that a person who maintains a place of abode in this state for a period of at least ninety days is a resident of this state. " To live in a house, a home, an apartment, a room or other similar place in NY State for 90 days is considered " presumptive evidence " that you are a resident of New York State. A police officer can use this as evidence to issue a traffic ticket if you drive in New York State without a New York State driver license or vehicle registration. A judge considers the law and the evidence of your intent and decides if you are a resident of New York State. If you pay taxes or your children attend school in another state , a judge considers these facts to decide if your intent is to make NY State a " fixed and permanent " residence. According to this law , students from other states or from other nations who attend school in NY State are usually not considered residents of NY State. DMV does not decide if you are a resident of New York State, if you must get a New York State driver license, or if you must register your vehicle in New York State.  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Driver License [18 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : Leandra's Law & ignition interlock devices#3    Document :  What is "Leandra's Law"?  Leandra's Law was signed into law on November 18 , 2009 in honor of Leandra Rosado. Leandra was an 11-year old killed while she rode in a vehicle with the intoxicated mother of one of her friends. In response to this tragedy , the NY State Legislature made several changes to the Vehicle and Traffic Law VTL. The law strengthened the penalties against motorists who drink and drive, and requires that any person sentenced for Driving While Intoxicated on or after August 15 , 2010 must have an ignition interlock device installed on any vehicle they own or operate the driver will have an " ignition interlock " restriction added to their driver license See additional information about Leandra's Law at the NY State Governor's Traffic Safety Committee Alcohol, Drugs and Impaired Driving [1] page.  What are the different parts of Leandra's Law and what are the penalties for conviction?  Leandra's Law includes the following provisions : The law established a new Class E Felony. The law states that no person shall operate a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs while a child who is 15 years of age or younger is a passenger in the vehicle. A court must sentence a person convicted of either to a period of probation or to a conditional discharge. The court must require the installation and use of an ignition interlock device in any motor vehicle owned or operated by a person convicted under this law. The ignition interlock device must remain in the vehicle for at least 12 months, unless otherwise permitted by the court. A court that sentences a person for a conviction on or after August 15 , 2010 must impose a conditional discharge or probation , and a condition of the sentence must be the installation and use of an ignition interlock device in any motor vehicle the person owns or operates. The ignition interlock device must remain in the vehicle for at least 12 months, unless otherwise permitted by the court.  What is an "ignition interlock device"?  An ignition interlock device connects to a motor vehicle ignition system and measures the alcohol content in the breath of the operator. The device prevents the vehicle from being started until the motorist provides an acceptable breath sample. If ignition interlock is ordered by a court , the system must be installed on each vehicle the motorist owns or operates. The device must remain installed for at least six months. The ignition interlock restriction will be added to the driver license record even if the license is revoked. The restriction will appear on the back of the driver license document as " interlock device ". Courts and probation departments will direct convicted motorists to vendors for ignition interlock installation. The NY State Division of Criminal Justice Services [2] website provides details on ignition interlock device vendors and information from the manufacturers of the device.  How do I remove the ignition interlock restriction from my driver license?  Your ignition interlock monitor must give you a form that states that you are no longer required to install and maintain the ignition interlock device in motor vehicles you own or operate. You must take this form to a local DMV office and apply for a new document without the restriction. 
title : Help finding enough proof of ID#3    Document :  I don't have my original U.S. birth certificate or marriage record  The New York State Department of Health Vital Records office [1] can help you with obtaining vital records in the state. Alternatively , you can order vital records online from New York and many other states through an independent partner, VitalChek Network Inc., at vitalchek.com [2].  I don t have enough proof of name identification to bring to the DMV. What can I do?  You may already have more proof documents than you think , or you may be able to get some proof documents. Here are some suggestions. Bank card debit with your name preprinted on it. Some banks will give you a card the same day you open an account. Online bill printouts. You can print out a copy of a paperless bill. For example , a phone bill, electricity / gas bill, water bill or cable bill. Divorce papers. You can contact your lawyer to find out where to go to obtain the papers, or check with the state where you got divorced. Remember , you must show us the original documents or a certified copy. Duplicate marriage certificate. You can check with the city, town or county where you were married. A lot of localities will allow you to order duplicates online. High school diploma or GED. You can contact the education department in the state where you graduated for a certified copy. If you attended school at a Community College , you may have received a General Educational Development GED certificate. You can contact the college for a certified copy. U.S. college transcripts. You can order these from a college or university you attended, even if you did not graduate there. You will need to have a photo ID from the college. Work ID , paystub or a W2 from state. These documents do not have to be from New York and they do not have to be current. Union card. The card can be from another state. If you lost the card , you can ask the union for help getting a duplicate. Even if you no longer have that union job , you may be a member for life. Life insurance policy. Check with your parents or spouse if they ever had a life insurance policy in your name. The policy must be in effect for at least 2 years. Check cashing card from a supermarket chain with your name printed on it.  You can use proof-of-residence documents that are in your spouse s name if  you and your spouse have the same last name you show additional documents that prove your relationship for example, a marriage certificate 
title : Get a CDL#1    Document :  Get a CDL[1]  Follow these steps to get your first time New York State commercial driver license CDL.  Step 1: Have a New York State driver license (Class D, Class E, or Non-CDL C) or a valid CDL from another state  Get the New York State Commercial Driver's Manual [2] CDL-10 online or from a DMV office [3] or call center. [ 4] Study the sections of the manual that apply to the type of CDL you need. The sections of the manual that you need to study are explained in the manual. The manual describes the classes, the restrictions, and the endorsements of CDLs. This information is also included on the Driver License Class Descriptions PDF [5] MV-500C.  Step 2: Apply for a commercial learner permit at a DMV office  You must pass the written test for the CDL that you need. There is an application fee of $10.00. This fee allows you to take all written tests knowledge and endorsement required for permit and license issuance applied for which are taken at the same time. There will be an additional $5 fee for any other required tests not taken and passed at the time of initial application. There is a fee of $40.00 to take the CDL road test skills test. You can pay the road test fee when the DMV office issues your commercial learner permit , or you can pay the fee online [6]. You must pay the fee before you can schedule your road test. When you apply for an New York State CDL Class A, B, or C , you must certify that You did not hold a driver license in any state or in the District of Columbia except New York in the last 10 years or you must report every US state or the District of Columbia where you held a driver license in the last 10 years. You meet the Federal medical examination requirements see Medical Certification Requirements [7] for more information. You must also prove your legal presence in the United States. IMPORTANT : DMV now offers three types of license / permit documents. Learn more about enhanced, REAL ID and standard documents [8].  Know what to bring to the DMV office  If you have a Standard and want to change to a REAL ID or Enhanced , you must come into a DMV office. Complete this guide to make sure you have the proofs of identification you need before coming. Find your proofs [9 ] The DMV Document Guide [10] lists all acceptable legal presence and New York State residence proof documents. Please note: You must provide us the original documents (not photocopies), and documents submitted as proof of residence must have your current residence address on it (no P.O. Box permitted). If you are U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident i.e., temporary visitors your Commercial Learner Permit CLP or CDL document will have the legend NON - DOMICILED printed on documents issued on it. The TEMPORARY VISITOR and the expiration date of your legal status documentation will continue to be displayed on the CLP and/or CDL document. Per new federal regulations , the DMV will check for any open suspensions or revocations you may have in any state. If you have an open suspension or revocation , we will reject your application. You must apply for a CDL at a DMV Office [3].  Step 3: Prepare for your road test and practice with a supervising driver  The supervising driver must have a driver license that is valid to drive the commercial motor vehicle that you use for practice.  Step 4: Schedule your road test  Use the Road Test Scheduling System [12]. Please note that you can t schedule an appointment for a date that is less than 14 days of being issued a Commercial Learner Permit CLP. If you do not pass the road test , you must pay a fee of $40.00 before you can schedule another road test. You can pay the fee online with your credit card, or pay the fee at a DMV office. New CDL restrictions defined below by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration FMCSA may affect CLP holders when taking a Skills Test in a vehicle without full airbrakes and/or a manual transmission. E - No Manual Transmission Equipped Commercial Motor Vehicle CMV L - No Airbrake Equipped CMV Z - No Full Airbrake Equipped CMV restrictions If the vehicle used for your skills test has : An automatic transmission , and this is your first road test in a commercial motor vehicle CMV , you will be given an E restriction. No form of airbrakes , and this is your first road test in a CMV , you will be given an L restriction. Air over hydraulic brakes , and this is your first road test in a CMV , you will be given a Z. If you have a CDL with an L restriction and you test in a vehicle with air over hydraulic brakes , you will be upgraded from an L to a Z restriction.  Additional information  Will I get a temporary CDL after I pass my road test?  No. Effective May 23 , 2014, the New York State DMV will no longer issue a 10-day temporary license document upon successful completion of a Commercial Driver License skills test, in order to comply with the Federal self - certification and medical certification requirements for commercial drivers. Instead , commercial drivers will be issued a receipt indicating they must wait 1 business day before visiting a DMV office in order to obtain a Commercial Driver s License document.  What is the fee for a CDL?  It depends on the expiration date and the class of your current driver license, and the date that you receive your CDL.  When will I get my CDL?  The local DMV office will issue a temporary CDL that is valid for 90 days. Your photo CDL will arrive by mail in 3 to 4 weeks.  What if I have a CDL from another state?  To get a New York State CDL , you must apply for your CDL at a DMV office and surrender your out - of - state CDL. If your out - of - state CDL has a hazardous materials endorsement , you must pass the hazardous materials knowledge test when you apply for your New York State CDL. You must also provide fingerprints for federal and New York State background checks for criminal violations. Federal regulations in 49 CFR Part 391  Show "do it online" button in megamenu:  Topic:  Commercial Drivers [13 ]  Related PDFs:  show mydmv button in megamenu:  Disable this transaction?:  yes or no survey:  
title : MyDMV Account Terms of Service#1    Document :  MyDMV Account Terms of Service[1]  INTRODUCTION A web account provides registered Users with secure and simplified access to use a variety of DMV s on - line applications and services. was created by the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles DMV, in cooperation with the New York State Office of Information Technology Services. In order to register for a account , you must first select a Sign - In Username and Password and provide your identity information. Your Username, Password, and identity information are stored in a secure directory called the NY.gov, which is maintained by New York State Office of Information Technology Services. Username and Password When you register for a account , you will be sent a temporary password by email. You must use the temporary password to complete the on - line registration process. After completing your registration , you can use your permanent Sign - In Username and Password for gaining access to applications and services. Upon validation of your identity , you will be permitted access to use DMV's secure web applications. This process is designed to protect the security of your identifying personal information. Your Sign - In Username and Password, and identifying personal information will be used solely for the purpose of NY.gov. As an additional feature of NY.gov you can use the same Username and Password when you register to use secure web applications available at other New York State agencies that participate in NY.gov. After registering to gain access to use secure web applications at another NYS agency , you simply sign in using the same Username and Password. Deactivation of NY.gov and Accounts For security purposes , the use of your MyDMV account is dependent upon validation of your identity by NY.gov. In the event that NY.gov deactivates access for any reason e.g., unable to validate your identity , your account will also be deactivated , and thereafter access to applications and on - line services will be denied and the account will be locked. Unlocking Accounts In order to unlock your account you must contact NY.gov, as instructed, and provide the necessary information. By registering for a account you acknowledge and agree that : You will abide by these Terms of Service; and the Terms of Service and Acceptable Use Policy for the use of NY.gov ; You certify that all identifying personal information provided to create or access your account is accurate, and pertains solely to you as the User of the account ; Any false statement, false certification, or false information provided in creating or using a account constitutes a criminal act which may result in the imposition of criminal sanctions ; For the purpose of imposing criminal sanctions , any false statement you make in connection with creating the account , and each fraudulent log - in to access applications or services , may be treated as a separate criminal offense. DMV reserves the right, and sole discretion, to revoke your Username and access to your account, at any time, without prior notification, in the interest of preserving the security of the system. You are responsible for all use of your account , and you must protect your temporary password, Sign - In Username and Password from disclosure to any individual or entity, and must not permit the use of your account by another. You agree to Not bypass or attempt to bypass any security controls for access to your account ; You will keep your Username and Password in a secure place and manner ; You will prevent disclosure of your Username and Password ; You will prevent others from watching you enter your Username and Password ; You will select a Username and Password that is non - obvious and difficult to guess e.g., not use your name, or the names of your spouse, children, pets, or other things that publicly identify you ; You will sign off of the system whenever the your computer is unattended ; You will take any action required by DMV or NY.gov to re - certify your identity, or to change your Username or Password ; You will immediately report to DMV any known or suspected breach of system security that you become aware of.  Topic:  MyDMV [2] 
title : About problem driver restrictions#3    Document : If you have a problem driver restriction , you can drive only to and from your place of employment during the hours of your employment , if your occupation requires the operation of a motor vehicle to and from a medical appointment which is part of a necessary medical treatment for you or a member of your household you may be required to provide a written statement from your licensed medical provider that verifies the travel is necessary to and from a Motor Vehicle office to transact business related to the license / permit / privilege that contains a problem driver restriction if the child's attendance at the school / day to and from a child's school / day - care - care is necessary for you to maintain employment or to maintain enrollment at an accredited school , college or university or a state - approved institution of vocational or technical training to and from an accredited school, college or university or a State - approved institution of vocational or technical training in which you are enrolled These restrictions are outlined on an attachment issued to you by the DMV. You must carry the attachment whenever you operate a motor vehicle.  To which classes of license can a problem driver restriction be applied?  The problem driver restriction can only be applied to a class D license. It cannot be applied to any commercial driver license CDL Class A, B or C, junior operator license Class DJ, motorcycle operator license Class M or MJ or a class E driver license.  Can I drive through New York State with my out-of-state CDL license if my New York State record has the problem driver restriction?  No. A driver with a CDL issued in another state cannot operate a commercial motor vehicle in New York State with a problem driver restriction on their New York State record.  Can I drive through New York State with my out-of-state license with the problem driver restriction?  Yes. You must carry your completed, signed and dated problem driver restriction attachment and abide by the problem driver restrictions listed on the attachment.  Is there a cost for this restriction?  No, you will pay the required driver license fees at the DMV office , but there is no additional fee for the problem driver restriction.  Where will the problem driver restriction be displayed?  Your photo driver license or permit will have an A2 restriction displayed on the front of the document , and the words " PROBLEM DRIVER RESTRICTION " will be displayed on the back of the document.  How long will the restriction be in effect? Is there any way I can have the restriction removed early?  If your revocation was due to an alcohol - related incident , the restriction remains in effect for five years from the date you receive your driver license or permit. If your revocation was not due to an alcohol related incident , the restriction remains in effect for two years from the date you receive your driver license or permit. The restriction cannot be removed earlier.  What happens if I have a moving violation conviction before I obtain my driver license or permit with the problem driver restriction?  The approval for a driver license or permit with the problem driver restriction will be withdrawn if you are convicted of any of these violations following too closely tailgating speeding, speed contest operating out of restriction cell phone or texting violation reckless driving any two other traffic violations. This includes a seat belt violation by the vehicle operator, but does not include parking, stopping, standing, equipment, inspection or other non - moving violations. Your driver license will be revoked for a minimum of 30 days. You may then apply for to the DIU for a new license and must pay a non - refundable $100 application fee.  Problem Driver Restriction with DMV Mandated Ignition Interlock Device  If your driving history includes alcohol - related violations , you may be required to install an ignition interlock device on any and all vehicles you own and/or operate. You are also subject to the problem driving restrictions. In addition , your problem driver restriction attachment will indicate that you are required to have an ignition interlock device. Yes. The DMV mandated ignition interlock is imposed and removed administratively by DMV. An interlock restriction imposed by a court under Leandra's Law is imposed and removed by DMV under the orders of the court and is monitored by the court and designated monitors. Any device that is approved by the NYS Division of Criminal Justice Services [1]. Visit the Ignition Interlock page [1] at the NYS Division of Criminal Justice Services website for a list of service center locations. For information about installation fees , visit the Ignition Interlock page [1] at the NYS Division of Criminal Justice Services website. No , devices must be installed in any and all vehicles you own or operate. The device must be installed for five years from the date you receive your driver license or permit. No , you must have the device installed for five years while you have the problem driver restriction. You can be issued a traffic ticket for driving out of restriction. If you are convicted , your driver license will be revoked. 
title : How to transfer a registration to another vehicle#3    Document : After you sell or give away a vehicle , you can transfer the registration and vehicle plates to another vehicle you own.  Bring these items to a DMV office [1]  original title or other proof of ownership 1 current NY State Insurance ID card auto liability insurance 2 NY State driver license , permit , non - driver ID or other proof of identity 3 a completed Application for Registration / Title PDF [2] MV-82 payment for fees 4 Print this checklist [3 ] For quicker service , make a reservation online before visiting offices in New York City, Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Onondaga, Monroe or Albany Counties. For all other counties , see our office locations and hours [1]. Make a Reservation [4 ] If you don t want to transfer the registration , you must surrender the vehicle plates to the DMV [5]. You may be eligible to receive a refund [6] if you surrender the plates before the registration expires.  Transfer the of a vehicle (buy, sell, or give away)  See Buy or sell a vehicle transfer ownership [7 ] Cars , trucks , trailers & motorcycles Model year1973 or newer , either NY State Certificate of Title original or certified copy, not a photocopy with the transfer ownership section completed by the seller , or acceptable proof of ownership from another state original or certified copy, not a photocopy Model year 1972 or older , either a NY State Transferable Registration original or certified copy, not a photocopy and bill of sale [8], or acceptable proof of ownership from another state original or certified copy, not a photocopy See acceptable proofs [9] for other vehicles manufactured homes, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles, gifted vehicles, vehicles with deceased owners. Your insurance company will: 1) give you 2 barcoded original NY State Insurance ID cards (see a sample [10]) or provide you with access to your digital electronic NY State Insurance ID Card 2) send an electronic notice of insurance coverage to the DMV (your insurance agent or broker cannot file this notice) Your NY State Insurance ID cards and the electronic notice together verify your coverage. We need both. You must register your vehicle within 180 days of the effective date on your Insurance ID Card. Bring one copy or form of your Insurance ID Card with you. The DMV office will keep the paper card. Keep the other paper card with the vehicle as your proof of insurance. Anyone operating your vehicle must be able to provide proof of insurance. Learn more about NY State Insurance Requirements [11]. You must provide proof of identity and date of birth. You must be at least 16 years old except for ATV and boat registrations. You can use a NY State driver license learner permit , or non - driver ID card that is current or expired less than 2 years as proof of identity and age. If you don t have one of these , see other kinds of proof [12] you can use. You can estimate the registration fees [13] online if the registration is one of these classes PAS - Passenger COM - Commercial RGL - Passenger MOT - Motorcycle ORM - Motorcycle CSP - Commercial ORC - Commercial RGC - Commercial ORG - Passenger SPO - Passenger SRF - Passenger The two vehicles must have the same registration type passenger, commercial, motorcycle. 
title : Closed School Discharge | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  If your school closes while you re enrolled or soon after you withdraw, you may be eligible for discharge of your federal student loan.  Learn about the eligibility requirements for discharge and how you can apply. There are certain eligibility requirements to qualify for a closed school discharge ; you must apply to get a discharge. It s important for you to obtain your academic and financial aid records if your school closes since you might need those records if you plan to attend another school or want your student loans discharged.  Discharge Criteria  You may be eligible for a 100 percent discharge of your William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program loans, Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loans, or Federal Perkins Loans if you were unable to complete your program because your school closed, and if you were enrolled when your school closed ; you were on an approved leave of absence when your school closed ; or your school closed within 120 days after you withdrew. You are not eligible for discharge of your loans if your school closes and any of the following is true : Except in exceptional circumstances , you withdrew more than 120 days before the school closed. You are completing a comparable educational program at another school through a teach-out, by transferring academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school , or by any other comparable means. You completed all the coursework for the program before the school closed, even if you did not receive a diploma or certificate.  Discharge Process  Contact your loan servicer about the application process for getting your loan discharged. Be sure to continue to make payments on your loan while your discharge application is being processed. Find out what happens if your loan discharge is approved. Find out what happens if your loan discharge is denied.  Automatic Closed School Discharge  If you meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge of your loans obtained to attend a school that closed on or after Nov. 1 , 2013, and you have not enrolled at another school that participates in the federal student aid programs within three years of the date your prior school closed , you will receive an automatic closed school discharge. This discharge will be initiated by the U.S. Department of Education ED , and you will be notified by your loan servicer. Although this closed school loan discharge is granted automatically after three years have passed since your school s closure , nothing prevents you from applying for and receiving a closed school discharge as soon as your school s official closure date is confirmed by ED. If you 1) attended a school that closed less than three years ago, 2) meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge, and 3) want your loans discharged, contact your loan servicer about applying for a closed school discharge now instead of waiting for three years to receive an automatic closed school discharge.  Q&A on Closed School Loan Discharges  What benefits do I have by receiving a closed school loan discharge?  By receiving a closed school loan discharge , you have no further obligation to repay the loan , you will receive reimbursement of payments made voluntarily or through forced collection , and the record of the loan and all repayment history associated with the loan, including any adverse history, will be deleted from your credit report.  I have nonfederal loans through private lenders. Can I get those loans discharged?  You will need to contact the private lender that made the loan to get that information.  I received loans for several different programs of study at the same school, but I was unable to complete any of the programs or transfer credits from one program to another before the school closed. Can all the loans be discharged?  Only loans you received for a program that you were unable to complete because of the school s closure are eligible for discharge. For example , if you initially enrolled in Program A, but decided not to continue with that program and transferred to Program B , and you were then unable to complete Program B because the school closed , only loans you received for Program B could potentially be discharged. In the example , you would not be eligible for discharge of any loans you received for Program A, because the school s closure did not prevent you from completing that program.  I did not complete the program, but I received a diploma or certificate. Does that make me ineligible for a loan discharge?  No. Before closing , some schools may issue a diploma or certificate to students who did not complete the program of study. If you did not complete your program of study , the fact that the school gave you a diploma or certificate does not disqualify you for discharge.  I transferred credits from a closed school to a completely different program of study at a new school and completed the new program. Does that make me ineligible for discharge of the loans I received at the closed school?  No. Transfer of credits from the closed school to a completely different program of study at the new school does not disqualify you for discharge.  I attended a school that is now closed. Where can I obtain a copy of my academic transcript?  Contact the state licensing agency in the state where the school was located to find out if the state has the records.  My school informed me that they have arranged a teach-out with neighboring schools. What is a teach-out?  A teach - out is a written agreement between schools that provides for the equitable treatment of students and a reasonable opportunity for students to complete their program of study if a school ceases to operate before all students have completed their program of study.  If my school closes and I then enroll in a comparable program at another school, can I still receive a discharge of the loans I received at the closed school?  It depends. If you completed or are in the process of completing a comparable program of study at another school through a teach - out , by transferring academic credits or hours from the closed school, or by any other comparable means , you are not eligible for a closed school discharge. However , you may be eligible for discharge if you completed or are in the process of completing a comparable program at another school , but you did not participate in a teach - out, transfer credits or hours from the closed school, or benefit from the training you received at the closed school by any other comparable means, and if you otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for a closed school discharge. 
title : Parent PLUS Loan Application | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Direct PLUS Loan Application for ParentsWilliam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan ProgramFederal Direct PLUS Loan Request for Supplemental Information  What is a Direct PLUS Loan Application for Parents?  This is a request for supplemental information in connection with your application for a Federal Direct PLUS Loan Direct PLUS Loan through the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program. Some schools may have a different process for obtaining the additional information needed to process your Direct PLUS Loan application. The information that you provide will be sent to the school that you select. The school you select will use the information collected to determine your eligibility for a Direct PLUS Loan and process your application. Before you can receive a Direct PLUS Loan , you must complete a Direct PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note Direct PLUS Loan MPN, which explains all of the terms and conditions of Direct PLUS Loans and constitutes your legally binding agreement to repay all Direct PLUS Loans that you receive under the Direct PLUS Loan MPN. You will have an opportunity to complete the Direct PLUS Loan MPN after you complete the Direct PLUS Loan Request. The Direct PLUS Loan Application allows you to authorize the school to use your loan funds to satisfy other educationally related charges after tuition and fees, and room and board have been paid. You are not required to provide this authorization. As a parent borrower , the Direct PLUS Loan Application also allows you to : Designate whether the school pays any credit balance to the student or to you. Request a deferment while the student is in school Request an additional deferment for 6 months after the student ceases to be enrolled at least half time. BEFORE YOU CONTINUE: If you have placed a security freeze on your credit file , you must lift or remove the freeze at each credit bureau before you continue. Your application will not be processed if you have a security freeze.  Apply for a PLUS Loan  LOG IN TO START Start Demo 
title : Unpaid Refund Discharge | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  If you withdrew from school and the school didn t make a required return of loan funds to the loan servicer, you might be eligible for a discharge of your federal student loans.  Learn more about the unpaid refund discharge to see whether you might qualify. If you withdrew from school after receiving a loan made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program or Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program , the school may have been required under federal regulations to return some or all of the loan money to your loan servicer. If the school didn t make a required return of the loan funds after you withdrew , you might be eligible for a discharge of the portion of your loan that the school failed to return.  How do I apply for unpaid refund discharge?  If the school that you attended is still open , you should contact that school and attempt to resolve the issue with the school before applying for an unpaid refund discharge. If the school that you attended has closed , you should first determine if you may be eligible for a closed school discharge instead. Contact your loan servicer for more information. Find out who your loan servicer is by logging in to My Federal Student Aid. If you re ready to apply for the unpaid refund discharge , you must complete the Loan Discharge Application: Unpaid Refund and send the completed form to your loan servicer.  How much of my loan will be discharged if I m approved for a loan discharge?  Only the portion of your loan that your school should have returned will be discharged. Contact your loan servicer for more information.  I m a parent who received a Direct PLUS Loan to help pay for my child s education. Can my loan be discharged due to unpaid refund?  Yes , if your child withdrew from school but the school didn t make a required return of your parent PLUS loan funds , the amount of the loan that the school should have returned will be discharged. Contact your loan servicer for more information. 
title : Complete the Financial Aid Process | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Complete the Financial Aid Process  You've accomplished the most important task submitting the Free Application for Federal Student Aid FAFSA form. Find out what you need to do next.  Next Steps  01  Get Informed  Find out how aid is calculated.  02  Compare Aid Offers  Review schools' financial aid packages.  03  Reply to Aid Offer  Accept aid from your chosen school.  04  Sign Loan Agreement  Complete a Master Promissory Note MPN.  05  Complete Entrance Counseling  Before your first loan or TEACH Grant , complete counseling.  Get Your Money  Your college or career school not the U.S. Department of Education will distribute your financial aid.  Find out when your school will pay out your aid and the period each payment covers. Learn how to pay for course materials if you don t get your financial aid as soon as classes start. Learn how you'll get your aid it all depends on the type of aid you receive. 
title : Receiving Financial Aid | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Receiving Financial Aid  Your college or career school not the U.S. Department of Education will distribute your federal student aid. You ve told your school which financial aid you want to accept. Learn about when and how you will receive the aid.  When You ll Receive Your Financial Aid  The type of aid you accepted affects when you ll get your aid.  Grants and Student Loans  Generally , your school will give you your grant or loan money in at least two payments called disbursements. In most cases , your school must give you your grant or loan money at least once per term semester, trimester, or quarter. Schools that don t use traditional terms such as semesters or quarters usually must give you your grant or loan money at least twice for instance, at the beginning and midpoint of your academic year or program. Note: If you re a parent taking out a Direct PLUS Loan to help pay for your child s education expenses , your loan funds will be disbursed according to the same type of schedule. The following may apply if you haven t taken out a federal student loan before : If you re a first - year undergraduate student and a first - time borrower , you may have to wait 30 days after the first day of your enrollment period semester, trimester, etc. before your school is allowed to give you your loan money. Check with your school to see whether this rule applies. If you re a first - time borrower of a Direct Subsidized Loan or a Direct Unsubsidized Loan , you must complete entrance counseling before your school can give you your loan money. If you are a graduate or professional student taking out a Direct PLUS Loan for the first time , you must complete entrance counseling before you receive your first loan disbursement. Note: Counseling isn t required if you re a parent taking out a Direct PLUS Loan to help pay for your child s education.  Work-Study  If you re going to have a work - study job , you ll be paid at least once a month. If you don t receive the type or amount of financial aid you expected , contact your school. The financial aid office can explain how your aid was determined.  How You ll Receive Your Financial Aid  How you ll get your aid depends on the type of aid you accepted.  Grants and Student Loans  Typically , the school first applies your grant or loan money toward your tuition, fees, and if you live on campus room and board. Any money left over is paid to you directly for other education expenses. If you get your loan money , but then you realize that you don t need the money after all , you may cancel all or part of your loan within 120 days of receiving it and no interest or fees will be charged.  Work-Study  Your school must pay you directly unless you request that the school send your payments directly to your bank account or use the money to pay for education - related charges e.g., tuition, fees, room and board on your student account.  Direct PLUS Loans for Parents  In most cases , your child s school will give you your loan money by crediting it to your child s school account to pay tuition, fees, room, board, and other authorized charges. If there is money left over , the school will pay it to you. In some cases , with your permission , the school may give the leftover money to your child. If you take out a loan as a student or parent , your school or your child s school will notify you in writing each time they give you any part of your loan money. At the same time , they ll provide information about how to cancel all or part of your loan if you find you no longer need the full amount. You will also receive a notice from your loan servicer confirming that you received the loan money.  Paying for Textbooks and Other Course Materials If You Haven t Received Your Financial Aid  Schools that participate in federal student aid programs must provide a way for you to obtain your books and supplies by the seventh day of the term if you are eligible for disbursement i.e., the payment of your financial aid 10 days before the term begins and you will have a credit balance i.e., money left over after your financial aid is applied to your tuition, fees, and other school charges as applicable. Your school can tell you if the above criteria apply to you.  How Your School Gets Your Financial Aid Funds to You for Course Materials  You should ask your financial aid office about this because it varies from school to school. For example , if the school offers a bookstore voucher or other means for students to receive their books and supplies through the school or its bookstore , you could obtain your materials that way. When your school gives you financial aid , sometimes money is left over after your aid is applied to your tuition, fees, and other school charges. This remaining amount is called a credit balance. If you have a credit balance , your school must pay this amount to you directly within 14 days unless you authorize the school to keep the money to pay for future institutional charges. The amount the school is required to provide is either the amount of your credit balance or the amount needed for books and supplies as determined by your school, whichever is less. Your school can tell you if this applies to you. Even if the school s preferred arrangement is to provide vouchers or other means for you to get your course materials through the school or its bookstore , the school must provide you the opportunity to opt out, receive a check from the school, and obtain the books and supplies on your own unless one of the following exceptions applies : The school can demonstrate a compelling health and safety reason for obtaining the materials through the institution or its supplier. The school can demonstrate that the materials are not currently available elsewhere or accessible to students via other means. Saving Money on Textbooks and Course Materials Depending on what materials are available at your school and for your courses , you may have several lower - cost options to obtain your books : If your course uses a hard - copy textbook , consider buying a used copy or renting your textbook from a bookstore or online. If you purchase your textbook , consider reselling that textbook, if allowed, when you are done with the course. Even with new textbooks , you may be able to save money by shopping around. Some schools use open - access texts and online content to offer students further savings over hard - copy textbooks. Open - access texts are available for free. If your course uses paid online content , your school may have negotiated a deal with the publisher that will allow you online access at a fraction of the cost you would pay for a physical book. The paid online content may also come with study tools and other content in addition to the textbook. Your options for course material formats will vary by school, instructor, and course, so learning what your options are and knowing about any cost - reduction initiatives your school may have can result in significant savings. A Note About ISBNs Your school must publish the International Standard Book Number ISBN for each course text in the online course schedule entry if the ISBN is available. The ISBN identifies the specific edition of the book that s required for your class and helps you be sure you re obtaining the right book when you search for it. If an ISBN is unavailable , the school should provide the author, title, publisher, and copyright date. 
title : Understanding College Costs | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  College and career school costs can vary significantly from school to school.  Learn about college costs and get tips on how to lower costs when you go to school. The cost of college can include a variety of items including some you might not expect. By understanding college costs , you can compare schools and explore options for how to lower your costs.  What is included in the cost of college?  College costs include more than tuition and room and board. Here are common costs : Make sure colleges and career schools give you a clear statement of their tuition and fees.  How can I lower the cost of college?  Here are some suggestions on how you might be able to lower the cost of college. For many of these suggestions , you ll want to follow up with the colleges or career schools you are interested in to get additional details. Set a budget and stick to it! Having a budget will help you compare anticipated college or career school expenses against your potential available income and financial aid. You also can use a budget to compare costs between different schools. Learn about budgeting. College or career school costs can vary significantly and there are many schools with affordable tuition and generous financial assistance. Make sure to research all schools that may meet your academic and financial needs. To find colleges or career schools , use our college search tool, College Navigator. You may be able to get school credit based on your knowledge or life experiences , and you can manage your course work to reduce costs. Ask your school whether it s possible to test out of any classes. If you don t take a class , you may not have to pay for the credits. Some colleges give credit for life experiences, thereby reducing the number of credits needed for graduation. Most schools charge a set price for a specific number of credits taken in a semester. If academically possible , take the maximum number of credits allowed. This strategy reduces the amount of time needed to graduate. Some schools offer combined degree programs or three - year programs that allow you to take all of the courses needed for graduation in three years, instead of four, thereby eliminating one year's educational expenses. Colleges and career schools may offer discounts on tuition if you are a child of an alumnus or alumna i.e., if your parent went to the school ; more than one family member is enrolled at the school ; you are a student government leader or the editor of the college newspaper or yearbook ; you are an older student ; your family s main wage earner is unemployed ; or you or a member of your family works at the school. Housing costs can add up. Here are some tips for reducing your housing costs : If you go to a college or career school near home , consider living with your parents or other family. If you live off - campus , consider sharing a house or apartment with multiple housemates to cut down the cost of rent, and carpool to save on gas and parking. Most colleges and universities sponsor resident advisor programs that offer reduced tuition or reduced room and board costs if you work in a residence hall. You may be eligible for health care benefits including the following : Most young adults can stay on their parents family plan until they turn 26, even if they are married or still living with their parents. If you have been uninsured because of a pre - existing condition , you may be eligible to join the Pre - Existing Condition Insurance Plan. If you are in a new insurance plan , insurance companies cannot charge you a deductible or copays for recommended or preventive services such as flu shots or other immunizations. You can work part - time to pay part of your costs. Be sure your work and school schedules don t conflict and that you have enough time for studying. Here are a couple of options : The Federal Work - Study Program provides an opportunity to earn money while going to school. Ask schools if they participate in the program. Cooperative education programs allow students to alternate between working full - time and studying full - time. Most schools have placement offices that help students find employment and personnel offices that hire students to work on campus. Taking small steps can add up. For example , you can lower the cost of textbooks if you buy used books or rent textbooks if you won t need the books once you finish the class. A credit card can help you build a credit history, if you use it wisely. But use it for emergencies only and don t spend more than you can afford to pay. If you decide to get a credit card , make sure you understand the terms.  How can I compare the costs of colleges?  You can find information about whether the cost of a college is low, medium, or high by using the College Scorecard. Keep in mind that a higher - priced school might have more financial aid available to help you pay for your education, so take a look at the school s net price if you want an idea of how much it might cost you after financial aid is taken into account. 
title : Perkins Loan Cancellation and Discharge | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  You may be eligible to have all or a portion of your Federal Perkins Loan canceled (based on your employment or volunteer service) or discharged (under certain conditions).  Learn more to see whether you are eligible and how to apply. Federal Perkins Loan cancellation is based on eligible employment or eligible volunteer service and the length of time that you were in such a position. Discharge of your Perkins Loan may occur under certain circumstances.  Perkins Loan Teacher Cancellation  What are the eligibility requirements?  You qualify for cancellation of up to 100 percent of a Federal Perkins Loan if you have served full - time in a public or nonprofit elementary or secondary school system as a teacher in a school serving students from low - income families ; special education teacher , including teachers of infants, toddlers, children, or youth with disabilities ; or teacher in the fields of mathematics, science, foreign languages, or bilingual education, or in any other field of expertise determined by a state education agency to have a shortage of qualified teachers in that state. Eligibility for teacher cancellation is based on the duties presented in an official position description, not on the position title. To receive a cancellation , you must be directly employed by the school system. There is no provision for canceling Federal Perkins Loans for teaching in postsecondary schools. Note that you also qualify for deferment while you re performing teaching service that qualifies for cancellation. Contact your college or your college s Perkins Loan servicer for information on applying for deferment.  Who is considered a teacher?  A teacher is someone including for example, a school librarian or guidance counselor who provides elementary or secondary school students with direct services directly related to classroom teaching. You do not need to be certified or licensed to receive cancellation benefits. However , your employing school must consider you to be a full - time professional for the purposes of salary, tenure, retirement benefits, etc. If you are a supervisor, administrator, researcher, or curriculum specialist , you are not considered a teacher unless you primarily provide direct and personal educational services to students.  How long must I teach?  For each full academic year or its equivalent of full - time teaching service , you are eligible to have a portion of your loan canceled. There is no requirement that you must teach a given number of hours a day to qualify as a full - time teacher ; the employing school is responsible for making that decision. An academic year or its equivalent for cancellation purposes is defined as one complete school year or two half - years that are from different school years. The two half - years must be complete and consecutive, excluding summer sessions, and must generally fall within a 12-month period.  Teaching Part-time at Multiple Schools  You can have your loan canceled if you are simultaneously teaching part - time in two or more schools if an official at one of the schools where you taught certifies that you taught full - time for a full academic year.  Teaching at a Private School  Your loan can be canceled for services performed in a private school if the private school has established its nonprofit status with the Internal Revenue Service, and if the school is providing elementary and/or secondary education according to state law.  Teaching at a Preschool or Prekindergarten Program  Your loan can be canceled only if the state considers such a program to be a part of its elementary education program. A low - income - school - directory designation that includes prekindergarten or kindergarten does not suffice for a state determination of program eligibility.  Teaching at Low-income Schools  A cancellation based on teaching in a school serving students from low - income families will be granted only if you taught in an eligible school as determined by the state education agency. To be considered a low - income school , the school must be in a school district that qualified for federal Title I funds in the year for which the cancellation is sought. Also , more than 30 percent of the school s enrollment must be made up of children in the Title I program. Each year , the U.S. Department of Education ED publishes a list of low - income elementary and secondary schools. To find out if a school is classified as a low - income school, check our online database for the year you have been employed as a teacher. Questions about the inclusion or omission of a particular school must be directed to the state education agency contact in the state where the school is located and not to ED. All elementary and secondary schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Education BIE or operated on Indian reservations by Indian tribal groups under contract with BIE qualify as schools serving low - income students. NOTE: If you have had a portion of your loan canceled for teaching at a low - income elementary or secondary school in one year , you can continue to have portions of your loan canceled for teaching at that school even if it is not listed as a low - income school in later years. Under certain circumstances , the institution that holds your Perkins Loan may permit retroactive cancellation if you can demonstrate that you qualified for cancellation in a prior year. However , the institution may not refund payments made during such a retroactive period.  Teaching at an Educational Service Agency  If you teach at an educational service agency , your teaching service may qualify for cancellation if the period of qualifying service includes Aug. 14 , 2008, or begins on or after that date.  Teaching Special Education  You must have an official at the public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school certify that you are a full - time special education teacher of infants, toddlers, children, or youth with disabilities either on the deferment / cancellation form or on an official letter from the school bearing the school's seal or letterhead. If you provide one of the services listed below , you qualify as a teacher only if you are licensed, certified, or registered by the appropriate state education agency for that area in which you are providing related special educational services, and the services you provide are part of the educational curriculum for handicapped children. The services are speech and language pathology and audiology , physical therapy, occupational therapy, psychological and counseling services , and recreational therapy.  Teaching in a Designated Subject Shortage Area  This cancellation is based on full - time teaching if there is a shortage of teachers in your subject area. Each year the state education agency determines any subject shortage areas in the elementary and secondary schools within the state. Check with your local school system or state education agency to find out if your subject - matter area has been so designated. If you teach full - time in science, mathematics, foreign language, or bilingual education, you qualify for cancellation even if the state has not designated one of these subject areas as a shortage area. For a borrower to be considered as teaching in a field of expertise , the majority of classes taught must be in that field of expertise.  Nationwide Listing of Teacher Shortage Areas  You may download the list of teacher shortage areas : PDF : Teacher Shortage Areas Nationwide Listing Word file : Teacher Shortage Areas Nationwide Listing  What amount can be canceled for teaching service?  If you are eligible for cancellation under any of the categories listed above , up to 100 percent of the loan may be canceled for teaching service, in the following increments : 15 percent canceled per year for the first and second years of service 20 percent canceled for the third and fourth years 30 percent canceled for the fifth year Each amount canceled per year includes the interest that accrued during the year.  Other Employment or Volunteer Service That Qualifies for Perkins Loan Cancellation  In addition to teaching , the following employment or service may qualify you for a full or partial Perkins Loan cancellation depending on the type of loan you have and the date of the loan : Early childhood education provider Employee at a child or family services agency Faculty member at a tribal college or university Firefighter Law enforcement officer Librarian with master s degree at Title I school Military service Nurse or medical technician Professional provider of early intervention disability services Public defender Speech pathologist with master s degree at Title I school Volunteer service AmeriCorps VISTA or Peace Corps Find out how much of your loan can be canceled.  Perkins Loan Discharge  Under certain conditions , your Perkins Loan may be discharged. When your loan is discharged , it means that you are no longer obligated to pay back your loan. Conditions that may lead to discharge include the following : Bankruptcy Death School closure Service-connected disability (veterans) Spouse of a victim of the events of 9/11 Total and permanent disability  Perkins Loan Cancellation and Discharge Summary Charts  Cancellation Chart  Unless otherwise noted in the chart , the cancellation rate per completed academic year of full - time teaching or for each year of otherwise qualifying full - time service is 15 percent of the original principal loan amount for each of the first and second years ; 20 percent of the original principal loan amount for each of the third and fourth years ; and 30 percent of the original principal loan amount for the fifth year. Each amount includes the interest that accrued during each year of service. Note: As of Oct. 7 , 1998 , all Perkins Loan borrowers are eligible for all cancellation benefits regardless of when the loan was made or the terms of the borrower's promissory note. However , this benefit is not retroactive to services performed before Oct. 7 , 1998.  Discharge Chart  If your loan is discharged , you will be released from your obligation to repay the loan.  Applying for Cancellation or Discharge  Application for cancellation or discharge of a Perkins Loan must be made to the school that made the loan or to the school s Perkins Loan servicer. The school or its servicer can provide forms and instructions specific to your type of cancellation or discharge. 
title : How to Correct or Update Your FAFSA Application | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  How to Correct or Update Your FAFSA Application  Learn what types of corrections and updates you may make and how to make them. Most of the questions on the FAFSA form want to know your situation as of the day you sign the application. However , there are some instances in which you ll want to or be required to change the information you reported.  What kinds of changes can I make to my FAFSA form once it s been processed?  Corrections: If You Made a Mistake  If you made a mistake in what you reported on the FAFSA form , you ll need to make a correction. Find out how to make changes to your FAFSA information.  Corrections: If You Filed a FAFSA Form Using an Incorrect Social Security Number (SSN)  If you filed a FAFSA form using an incorrect SSN , you can correct your SSN by doing one of the following : Recommended method : You can submit a new online FAFSA form. In many cases , this is the easiest and fastest option. Note: Submitting a new FAFSA form will change the date your FAFSA form was submitted and processed. Be sure to check your state or school deadlines, because your FAFSA submission date must meet those deadlines in order for you to qualify for state or school aid. You can ask the financial aid office at one of the schools listed on your Student Aid Report SAR to change your SSN for you. Least efficient method: You can change your SSN on your paper SAR, sign it, and mail it to the address provided on the SAR. This can take two to three weeks to process. Note: The SSN can t be changed through the paper SAR more than once.  Updates: If Your Situation Has Changed  Most information cannot be updated because it must be accurate as of the day you originally signed your FAFSA form. For example , if you spent some of your savings after filing the FAFSA form , you may not update your information to show a change in that amount. You should speak to the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend if there will be a significant change in your or your parent s income for the present year or if your family has other circumstances that cannot be reported on the FAFSA form. You may update your mailing address, email address, and other contact information if it has changed. There are certain items that you must update : You must update anything that changes your dependency status for instance, you are now pregnant or are now in legal guardianship except a change in your marital status. If your marital status changes , you must speak to the financial aid office to determine whether you may update the FAFSA form. If and only if you are selected for verification , you must update your FAFSA form if there is a change in the number of family members in your parents household or in your household. If the number of family members changes as a result of a change in your the student s marital status , you must speak to the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend to determine whether you may update the FAFSA form. If and only if you are selected for verification , you must update your FAFSA form if there is a change in the number of people in your parents household who are in college or the number of people in your household who are in college. If the number of people in college changes as a result of a change in your the student s marital status , you must speak to the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend to determine whether you may update the FAFSA form.  Changes to Federal School Codes: If You Want to Add or Delete a School  If you want to make your FAFSA information available to an additional school after filing the FAFSA form , you may add that school s Federal School Code. Note: No more than 10 schools may be listed on your FAFSA form at one time. The FAFSA PDF has space for only four schools, while the online FAFSA form and the myStudentAid mobile app allow 10 to be listed. If you add an eleventh school , the new school code overwrites a previous school code. You may choose which school to replace with the new school. The school removed from the list will not have automatic access to any new information you provide after you ve removed that school.  How do I make changes to my FAFSA form?  You can make changes in one of the following ways : Make changes at fafsa.gov : Select the " LOG IN button and enter your FSA ID. On the " My FAFSA " page , select " Make FAFSA Corrections. Create a save key. Change your information. Submit your new information. Write in the corrections or updates on your paper SAR, sign it, and mail it to the address provided on the SAR. Check with the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend ; the school might be able to make changes for you electronically. Note : Tax return information you transfer via the Internal Revenue Service Data Retrieval Tool cannot be changed on your online FAFSA form. If you filed a 1040X amended return , contact your school s financial aid office to discuss whether it would be appropriate for the school to adjust the information on your FAFSA form. 
title : Reporting Parent Information | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Dependent students must report their parents information, as well as their own, on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form.  Find out who counts as your parent when you file your FAFSA form. If you are considered a dependent student for FAFSA purposes , you will need to provide information about your legal parent on the application. A legal parent is your biological or adoptive parent, or your legal parent as determined by the state for example, if the parent is listed on your birth certificate. If you have a stepparent currently married to your legal parent , you generally also must provide information about him or her. View text-only version  Who is my parent according to the FAFSA form?  If you need to report parent information , here are some guidelines to help you : If your legal parents your biological and/or adoptive parents, or parents as determined by the state [e.g., a parent listed on your birth certificate] are married to each other, answer the questions about both of them, regardless of whether your parents are of the same or opposite sex. If your legal parents are not married to each other and live together , answer the questions about both of them, regardless of whether your parents are of the same or opposite sex. If your legal parent is widowed or was never married , answer the questions about that parent.  What if my parents are divorced or separated?  In this case , how you fill out the FAFSA form depends on whether your parents live together or not. Keep the following in mind as you read this section : For FAFSA purposes , your married parents are separated if they are considered legally separated by a state, or if they are legally married but have chosen to live separate lives, including living in separate households, as though they were not married. When two married persons live as a married couple but are separated by physical distance or have separate households , they are considered married for FAFSA purposes.  Divorced or Separated Parents Who Do Not Live Together  If your parents are divorced or separated and don t live together , answer the questions about the parent with whom you lived more during the past 12 months. If you lived the same amount of time with each divorced or separated parent , give answers about the parent who provided more financial support during the past 12 months or during the most recent 12 months that you actually received support from a parent.  Divorced or Separated Parents Who Live Together  If your divorced parents live together, you ll indicate their marital status as Unmarried and both legal parents living together , " and you will answer questions about both of them on the FAFSA form. If your separated parents live together, you ll indicate their marital status as Married or remarried " NOT Divorced or separated " , and you will answer questions about both of them on the FAFSA form.  What if I have a stepparent?  If you have a stepparent who is married to the legal parent whose information you re reporting , you must provide information about that stepparent as well. EXCEPTION : The FAFSA form asks about your parents education level. For these two questions , your parents are considered to be your birth parents or adoptive parents your stepparent is not your parent in these questions. Including your stepparent s information on the FAFSA form helps create an accurate picture of your family s total financial strength.  What if my stepparent is widowed?  If your stepparent was married to your parent but is now widowed , that stepparent doesn t count as a parent on your FAFSA form unless he or she has legally adopted you.  What if my parents are in a same-sex marriage?  Same - sex couples must report their marital status as married if they were legally married in a state or other jurisdiction foreign country, without regard to where they live or where the student will be going to school. The FAFSA questions use gender - neutral terminology for married parents Parent 1 father / mother / stepparent " and Parent 2 father / mother / stepparent " instead of mother " and father ". It does not matter which parent completes which set of questions.  What if I live with someone other than my parents?  It doesn t matter if you don t live with your parent or parents ; you still must report information about them. The following people are not your parents unless they have legally adopted you: grandparents, foster parents, legal guardians, older brothers or sisters, uncles or aunts, and widowed stepparents.  What kind of information must my parents provide for the FAFSA form?  For each parent , you ll report similar information to that you report for yourself: basic information about your parent s identity e.g., name, date of birth, and Social Security number if he or she has one; living situation e.g., marital status, state of residence, household size; and financial circumstances e.g., tax information, certain assets, certain untaxed income. Learn more about the types of information you and your parents will report on the FAFSA form.  What if I'm unable to provide parent information due to special circumstances?  In situations such as the ones below , you may be able to submit your FAFSA form without parent information despite being considered a dependent student : Your parents are incarcerated. You have left home due to an abusive family environment. You do not know where your parents are and are unable to contact them and you have not been adopted. You are older than 21 but not yet 24, are unaccompanied, and are either homeless or self - supporting and at risk of being homeless. If you are filling out the FAFSA form online or on the myStudentAid app , you will be asked whether you are able to provide information about your parents. If you are not , you will have the option to indicate that you have special circumstances that make you unable to get your parents information. You will then be able to submit your application without entering data about your parents. However , it is important for you to understand the following : Although your FAFSA form will be submitted , it will not be fully processed. You will not receive an Expected Family Contribution EFC and must immediately contact the financial aid office at the college or career school you plan to attend. The financial aid staff may ask for additional information to determine whether you can be considered independent and have an EFC calculated without parent data. Gather as much written evidence of your situation as you can. Written evidence may include court or law enforcement documents; letters from a clergy member, school counselor or social worker; and/or any other relevant data that explains your special circumstance. The financial aid office s decision about your dependency status is final and cannot be appealed to the U.S. Department of Education.  What if my parents are unwilling to provide their information on my FAFSA form?  You can t be considered independent of your parents just because they refuse to help you with the FAFSA form. Still , we do understand that in some cases, the parents are not supporting the dependent student at all and refuse to provide their information on the student s application. If you re in that situation , here s the process for filling out the FAFSA form online or on the myStudentAid app : When the FAFSA form asks you to provide information about your parents , select the I am unable to provide information about my parent option. If you are using the myStudentAid app, you will need to select the Learn more link when you get to the point in the app where it tells you that it looks like parent information is required to calculate your EFC. You will then be provided with an explanation of what s considered a special circumstance. After reading through the options , select the one that says you don t have a special circumstance but you still can t provide parent information. If you are using the myStudentAid app, you will need to select the option indicating that you d like to be considered for an unsubsidized loan. The application explains that if your parents don t support you and refuse to provide their information on the application, you may submit your FAFSA form without their information. However , you won t be able to get any federal student aid other than an unsubsidized loan and even that might not happen. The decision is up to the financial aid office at the college or career school you plan to attend. If you agree to this , you may submit your FAFSA form without parent information. Your FAFSA information will be sent to the colleges you list , but you won t get an EFC. You must immediately contact your school s financial aid office to discuss the possibility of getting an unsubsidized loan. The financial aid office may ask for a written statement from your parents, indicating that they refuse to provide their information on the FAFSA form and that they no longer support you. Forms of support include allowing you to live in their home, including you on their car or health insurance, providing a car to drive on a regular basis, and payment of your tuition or fees. The financial aid office will look at your situation and decide whether you may receive an unsubsidized loan. That decision is final and cannot be appealed to the U.S. Department of Education. If you re considering following this process, think about this first : If you submit your FAFSA form without parent information, you will not receive an EFC. Some state- or school - based aid programs look at the EFC in order to determine your eligibility for their funds ; because you won t have an EFC, you won t be considered for those aid programs. You could be giving up a chance at many sources of aid. So encourage your parents to provide their information doing so won t require them to support you in any way , it ll just help you be considered for as many sources of financial aid as possible.  What if my parents are concerned about providing their information because of their citizenship status?  Your parents citizenship status does not affect your eligibility for federal student aid. In fact , the FAFSA form doesn t even ask about your parents status.  How should we report information about my noncitizen parents on my FAFSA form?  Here are some tips for students with noncitizen parents : If your parent does not have a Social Security number SSN , you should enter all zeroes for him or her on the FAFSA form where it asks for that information. Do NOT enter a Taxpayer Identification Number in the SSN field. If your parent doesn t have an SSN , he or she won t be able to create an FSA ID which requires an SSN and therefore won t be able to sign your FAFSA form electronically either online or via the myStudentAid app. From the online form you can t print a signature page from the app , you ll need to select the option to print a signature page when you get to the end of the application. Print the page, have your parent sign it, and then mail it to the address indicated so that your FAFSA form can be processed. If your parent doesn't live in the U.S. , select " Foreign Country " from the dropdown box for the question that asks about the parents' state of legal residence. If your parents live and file taxes in a foreign country and don t file U.S. taxes , you ll have the opportunity to indicate that they have filed their taxes. Then , when the FAFSA form asks whether your parents filed a Puerto Rican or foreign tax return , you should select Yes. " Convert the amounts on the foreign tax return into U.S. dollars as directed by the FAFSA help and hints. If your parents live in one of the Freely Associated States , they should enter the Amount of Wages Earned from their Freely Associated States tax form in the field where the FAFSA form asks for adjusted gross income. If your parent doesn t file taxes at all , select Not going to file " for the question that asks whether the parent have filed taxes. Then you ll be asked for information about how much your parent earned from work, rather than being asked for information about specific items on the tax form. 
title : Choosing a School | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Not sure what college or career school might be right for you?  Learn about steps you can take to research possible colleges or career schools. While getting the right education and training will help you get a better - paying job , going to college or career school is a big investment in time, money, and effort. Make sure to take your time and research your options.  How do I find the right college or career school for me?  Types of Schools  There is a wide array of schools available for higher education. Options include two- and four - year colleges and universities, vocational, trade, and career schools, online schools, and graduate schools. Different schools serve different purposes. Make sure you choose the type of school that helps you achieve your goals. Remember that financial assistance programs and requirements can vary from school to school. Plus , not all colleges and career schools participate in the federal student aid programs. Always check with a school to find out what financial aid is available there.  Assess Yourself  Understanding your career goals and options and their earning potential will help you find a college or career school that meets your needs. The Career Search will help you match your skills and interests with potential careers.  Use the College Search Tool  The U.S. Department of Education s college search tool, College Navigator, is a way to find colleges and career schools that may fit your needs. You can search for schools by location, degrees offered, programs and majors, tuition and fees, setting, size, and much more. College Navigator allows you to compare schools, save your session, and export your results into a spreadsheet.  Check Out Schools (In Person or Remotely)  To help you narrow down your college or career school options , try the following : Check out the school s website. Lots of colleges and career schools offer virtual tours, so you can still see the campus, even if you can t visit in person. Attend college fairs. College fairs give you the chance to talk to representatives from multiple colleges and career schools. For instance , you can visit the National Association for College Admission Counseling college fairs. A great way to get a feel for a school is to contact the school and schedule a visit, preferably while classes are in session. Be sure to bring a list of questions to ask. If you re in high school , ask your school counselor what information he or she has about the schools that interest you. Visit your state higher education agency s website to learn more about colleges and universities in your state. Your education is a major investment, so find out as much information as you can before you enroll. And because each school may offer different financial aid packages , you should consider applying to more than one school. For more information about what you should be doing to get ready for college , use our checklists for help.  What should I consider when comparing schools?  As you research colleges and career schools , consider such factors as cost, location, accreditation, and more. To find the information listed on this page for a specific school , check the school s website or search for the school using the U.S. Department of Education s college search tool, College Navigator.  School Costs and Net Price  School costs can be one of the most important factors in choosing potential colleges or career schools and costs can vary significantly from school to school. Learn about what is included in the cost of college and ways to reduce college costs. Any school that participates in the federal student aid programs is required to provide information on its cost of attendance and to offer a net price calculator on its website. Searching for a school s net price calculator is easy. This calculator will give you an idea of how much a program may cost after subtracting any financial aid. You can look up the cost and assess the value of colleges using the College Scorecard.  Financial Aid  Many students worry that tuition and the other costs of continuing their education will be out of reach. But don t let the potential costs stop you. Most students receive some kind of financial aid , and a few students even get a free ride, with all their costs covered. You should learn about financial aid including grants, scholarships, work - study, and loans. Always apply for all types of aid for which you might qualify, and meet all deadlines! Creating and managing a budget is a way to keep track of your income and expenses and save for your goals.  Admission Requirements  Different schools have different admission requirements. Learn exactly what a school requires by visiting its website or checking in with its admissions office. Many U.S. colleges require that students submit standardized test scores as part of their application packages. For most undergraduate programs , you ll have to take either the SAT or the ACT Test.  Accreditation  An accredited school meets certain standards set by an independent agency. It helps ensure the training or education you get meets employer standards in a specific field. If you attend a school that isn t accredited , you might not be able to get any financial aid. Use our accreditation search page to check a particular school s standards or to find an accredited school in a particular field or location. A diploma mill is an unaccredited school or a business claiming to be a school that awards a degree without requiring classwork that meets college - level standards. Some will send a diploma without you doing any work at all if you pay a fee. Others assign classwork that is so easy that your resulting degree is worthless, compared to a degree from an accredited school, and it won t help you get a good job. Learn more about diploma mills and how to avoid them.  Enrollment Contracts  Read any school enrollment contract carefully before you sign it. The contract explains what the school will give you for your money. If a school representative promises you something such as help finding a job that s not in the contract , ask the representative to write that promise into the contract and have it signed and dated. A promise is usually not enforceable unless it s in writing.  Refund Policies  Find out the school s tuition refund policy. If you enroll but never begin classes , you should get most of your money back. If you begin attending classes but leave before completing your course work , you might be able to get some of your money back. Also find out the school s return - of - aid policy. If you receive federal student aid except for Federal Work - Study and you withdraw from school , some of that money might have to be given back to the source by you or by your school. Even if you don t finish your course work , you ll have to repay the loan funds you received, minus any student loan funds your school has returned to the U.S. Department of Education. Learn more about repaying federal student loans.  Past Complaints and Reputation  Just because a school participates in the federal student aid programs doesn t mean we ve endorsed the quality of education the school offers. To find out whether there have been any complaints about the school , contact your local Better Business Bureau, state higher education agency, or the consumer protection division of your state attorney general s office. Check with the agency that licenses or accredits the school to see whether it meets required standards.  Useful Statistics  Some numbers can help you evaluate schools. 
title : Borrower Defense to Repayment | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Borrowers may be eligible for forgiveness of the federal student loans used to attend a school if that school misled them or engaged in other misconduct in violation of certain laws.  This type of loan forgiveness is called borrower defense to repayment, sometimes abbreviated to borrower defense. Learn more in the sections below to see whether you may qualify.  Borrower Defense Application  who attended Corinthian Colleges Everest, Heald, and WyoTech with a first date of attendance between July 1 , 2010, and Sept. 30 , 2014, and are seeking federal student loan forgiveness through borrower defense Borrowers will complete a Corinthian - specific application. For more information about forgiveness of federal student loan used to attend Corinthian Colleges , go to the Information about Debt Relief for Corinthian Colleges Students page. All other borrowers applying for borrower defense MUST submit their application using one of the U.S. Department of Education ED borrower defense application forms provided in the sections below. Please read the instructions provided within the application before filling out the application form. Please note that the instructions also include information for parent PLUS borrowers. To apply for federal student loan forgiveness based on borrower defense , complete an online application form. Within the online application form , you will be required to provide your signature digitally. It is helpful to include additional documentation as part of your application by uploading additional electronic documents for example, scanned PDF documents. ED recommends you prepare the additional documentation prior to starting the application process. If you choose to submit additional documents as part of your borrower defense application , the following types of documents are among those that may be helpful to your application : to confirm the school for which you are applying for borrower defense, your program of study, and your dates of enrollment such as transcripts, enrollment agreements, and registration documents Documentation Promotional materials from the school Emails with school officials Your school s manual or course catalog ED and/or your federal student loan servicer s will contact you once the review of your application is complete to inform you of whether your application was successful or denied. To apply via email or physical mail , complete a fillable PDF application form , print it , and sign it view a nonfillable HTML version of the application form. Send your completed form to the U.S. Department of Education by email to BorrowerDefense@ed.gov or by regular mail to U.S. Dept. of Education Borrower Defense to Repayment , P.O. Box 1854 , Monticello, KY 42633. If you submit your PDF application by email , you are required to upload an electronic version of your signature. You can upload a picture file of your signature for example, taken with a smart phone or digital camera. If you have additional documents that you would like to include as part of your emailed application , please include the documents with your email for example, by attaching scanned PDF documents. ED recommends you prepare the additional documentation prior to starting the application process.  Who Qualifies for Borrower Defense to Repayment Loan Forgiveness  Under the law , you may be eligible for borrower defense to repayment forgiveness of the federal student loans that you took out to attend a school if that school misled you, or engaged in other misconduct in violation of certain state laws. Specifically , you may assert borrower defense by demonstrating that the school, through an act or omission, violated state law directly related to your federal student loan or to the educational services for which the loan was provided. You may be eligible for borrower defense regardless of whether your school closed or you are otherwise eligible for loan forgiveness under other laws. If you are eligible to receive federal student loan forgiveness , you may be able to have all or part of your outstanding federal student loan debt forgiven , and you also may be reimbursed for amounts you have already paid on those loans. You will only be eligible for this type of federal student loan forgiveness if your school s misleading activities or other misconduct directly relate to the loan or to the educational services for which the loan was provided. You will not be eligible for this type of forgiveness based on claims that are not directly related to your loan or the educational services provided by the school. For example , personal injury claims or claims based on allegations of harassment are not bases for a borrower defense application. Please note that eligibility for federal student loan forgiveness is limited to federal student loans taken out for payment to the school relating to your borrower defense application. If you would like to apply for borrower defense against multiple schools that you attended and for which you took out federal student loans , you must submit separate applications for each school of attendance. For the purposes of borrower defense discharge only , we interpret the term Direct Loan in 34 CFR 685.206 to include Direct Consolidation loans. This interpretation enables borrowers with loans eligible for Direct Loan consolidation, including Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loans or Federal Perkins Loans, to avail themselves of the borrower discharge process provided here by consolidating such loans into the Direct Loan Program.  Forbearance/Stopped Collections Status  Within the application , you may select to have your federal student loans placed into forbearance or stopped collections status while your application is reviewed by ED. If you choose for your loans to be placed into forbearance or stopped collections status, shortly after we receive your application , your loans will be placed in forbearance , and collections will cease on any of your loans that are in default while your application is evaluated. NOTE: If you do not select one of the forbearance or stopped collection options within the application, your federal student loans will be placed into forbearance or stopped collection , and ED will request forbearance or stopped collection for any commercially held Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loans that you have currently. Interest will continue to accrue for the loans in forbearance while your application is evaluated. More information on forbearance and stopped collections is available immediately below in the Common Questions and Answers Regarding Forbearance / Stopped Collections section. Automatic Administrative Forbearance and Temporary 0% Interest as a Result of the COVID-19 National Emergency To provide relief to student loan borrowers during the COVID-19 national emergency , federal student loan borrowers are automatically being placed in an administrative forbearance, which allows you to temporarily stop making your monthly loan payments. In addition , interest is being temporarily set at 0% on federal student loans. This 0% interest and suspension of payments will last from March 13 , 2020, through Sept. 30 , 2020 , but you can still make payments if you choose. Have questions? Find out what loans qualify, and get additional information about the 0% interest period, administrative forbearance, and other student loan flexibilities due to the COVID-19 national emergency.  Common Questions and Answers Regarding Forbearance/Stopped Collections Status  By completing and submitting a borrower defense application , you may have all of your federal student loans in repayment placed into forbearance status and have debt collections on any federal student loans in default stopped stopped collections status while ED reviews your application. However , please note interest will continue to accumulate on federal student loans regardless of what status they are in, including for subsidized loans. If your application for borrower defense is denied or partially approved , then when you are taken out of forbearance or stopped collections , the interest that accumulated will be added to the amount you owed when you entered forbearance or stopped collections , and the total amount you owe in the future may be higher. NOTE : You do not have to place your loans in forbearance or stopped collections to apply for borrower defense forgiveness. If you do not select one of the forbearance or stopped collection options within the application , your ED - held Federal Student Aid loans will automatically be placed into forbearance and stopped collections , and ED will request forbearance and debt collection to stop for any commercially held FFEL Program loans that you have currently as applicable. Please read the following question and answer Q & A section carefully before you choose whether you want the U.S. Department of Education to place your loans into forbearance or stopped collections. What does forbearance status mean? During any period that your federal student loans are in forbearance , you do not have to make payments on those loans , and the loans will not go into default. This will continue until the borrower defense review process of your application is completed. Your loan servicer will notify you when your federal student loan have been placed into forbearance status. Until you receive that notice , you must continue to make payments. What does stopped collections status mean? During any period that your loans are in default , if you choose to enter stopped collections status , collections on your loans will stop. For federal student loans that are placed into stopped collections status , the federal government or debt collection companies will stop attempting to collect on the loan, including by not withholding money from your wages or income tax refunds. This will continue until the borrower defense review process of your application is completed. If you previously defaulted on your federal student loan and have entered a rehabilitation plan , please contact the collection agency that you have been working with to set up that plan in order to determine whether there may be any negative consequences if you choose to enter stopped collections status. Which of my federal student loans are eligible to go into forbearance or stopped collections status? Initially , if you choose forbearance or stopped collections status , it will affect all of your federal student loans that are owned by ED and are being serviced by your federal student loan servicer, including loans that are not eligible for borrower defense loan forgiveness, such as 1 loans taken out to attend another institution, and 2 any loans you have for which you are not asserting borrower defense. If you select forbearance and you have commercially held FFEL Program loans , ED will request forbearance on your behalf. Can I remove some or all of my federal student loans from forbearance or stopped collections status? If you want the forbearance or stopped collections status to apply only to those federal student loans related to your borrower defense application , you must contact your loan servicer after you hear from your loan servicer and your servicer confirms the forbearance or stopped collection status. After your loans enter forbearance or stopped collection status , if at any time you want to remove all of your federal student loans from forbearance or stopped collections , you must also contact your loan servicer. Can I make payments on my federal student loans that are in forbearance or stopped collections? Yes. While your federal student loans are in forbearance or stopped collections , you are not required to pay your loans. However , you are allowed to make payments on any of your loans that are in forbearance or stopped collections, including payments for accrued interest. As noted above , interest will continue to accrue on all of these loans while they are in forbearance or stopped collections. What happens if my borrower defense application against the school is successful? Your federal student loans related to your application may be discharged partially or completely. If you receive a partial discharge , you will be responsible for repaying any amounts that are not discharged through borrower defense including any interest that accumulated. Also , at that time , the forbearance or stopped collections period for any of your other federal student loans will end. You will be responsible for repaying those other loans, if applicable, including interest that accrued during the forbearance or stopped collections period. What happens if my borrower defense application against the school is denied? You will not receive a discharge of any of your federal student loans and the forbearance or stopped collections period will end for all of your loans. You will be responsible for repaying these loans, including interest that accrued during the forbearance or stopped collections period. Q. I believe I may be a member of the class that has been certified in the case, Manriquez v. DeVos, because my borrower defense application includes a claim that is based upon job placement rate misrepresentations made by a Corinthian Colleges school. What happens with my repayment status , and what should I do if I am in the wrong repayment status? For more information about the Manriquez v. DeVos case and the class that has been certified in that case , go to the Information About Debt Relief for Corinthian Colleges Students page, under the Information on Pending Litigation for Students at Corinthian Colleges Everest, Heald, and WyoTech Under Borrower Defense to Repayment Rule section. The Frequently Asked Questions About Manriquez v. DeVos subsection provides additional information on how forbearance and stopped collections may apply to your situation due to the pending litigation and court injunction and on what to do if you have questions about your repayment status. The Notifications Regarding Manriquez v. DeVos Lawsuit section on this page provides information about notifications ED began emailing and mailing to borrowers on Dec. 26 , 2019.  Common Questions and Answers Regarding Borrower Defense Decision Notifications  The U.S. Department of Education ED notifies borrower defense applicants of ED s determination about borrower defense discharge eligibility. The notifications are emailed to borrowers. If you have questions about your notification email that aren t answered below , call our borrower defense hotline : 1 - 855 - 279 - 6207. Representatives are available Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Eastern time ET. Q. I received an email saying that my borrower defense claim is approved. Is this email legitimate? Yes. ED completed its review of your application for a borrower defense discharge of your Direct Loans under the applicable borrower defense to repayment rules and determined that your claim associated with your enrollment or your child s enrollment at the school identified in that notification email is approved. Your borrower defense application was evaluated based on the applicable state law and the circumstances identified in your notification email. Your notification email identified the percentage of the total amount of the Direct Loans you took out to pay for your program that will be discharged. You should receive notification of your discharge from your federal loan servicer within 90 120 days after you received your notification email. As explained in the What happens next? section of your email notification , wait to receive notification of your discharge from your federal loan servicer. Does the borrower defense discharge apply to all loans I took out to pay for my program? No. This borrower defense discharge applies only to your Direct Loans. This borrower defense discharge does not apply to private student loans or other loans you may have received from programs administered by federal or state agencies, including other programs administered by ED. ED will proceed with the applicable discharge of your Direct Loans. If some of your federal student loans are Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loans and/or Federal Perkins Loan Program loans , they are not eligible for discharge under the Borrower Defense to Repayment law or regulations. If you want to have your borrower defense discharge apply to your FFEL and/or Federal Perkins loans , you can consolidate your loans into a Direct Consolidation Loan and obtain the discharge. To apply for a Direct Consolidation Loan , go to StudentAid.gov/app/launchConsolidation.action. Once you have your Direct Consolidation Loan , contact our borrower defense hotline at 1 - 855 - 279 - 6207 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ET on Monday through Friday to proceed with discharge. How did ED determine my discharge percentage? For approved borrower discharge claims , ED calculated the amount of borrower defense discharge relief by comparing the earnings of those who completed the same or a similar program at a borrower s school median program earnings to the earnings of those who completed the same or a similar program at other schools median comparison earnings. Specifically , ED used a statistical tool called standard deviation to identify the range of program earnings that would qualify for loan relief, and then divided that range into quartiles to determine the amount of relief a borrower would be provided. If your program earnings exceeded the comparison earnings , then , even if you filed an approved claim , you will not receive a discharge unless your approved application is associated with Corinthian Colleges, Inc. CCI. If your approved application is associated with CCI , you will receive at least a 10% discharge. The larger the negative gap between your program earnings and comparison earnings , the greater the amount of loan discharge you received. The Borrower Defense Partial Relief Methodology tables used by ED to determine relief percentages are provided for your reference. When viewing the earnings charts , note the following : No Data Available appears when there was no data available to complete a calculation. The wording under Program Name may not match exactly to the program name used by your school. There can be slight wording differences in the program name used by the school and the program name shown in the earnings chart. The word Diploma under the Credential column , means the same as Certificate Program, which is often used by schools. Will prior payments be refunded after my discharge is applied? A time limitation applies on receiving a refund of payments made on your federal student loans when a borrower defense claim is approved. We will inform your loan servicer whether you filed your borrower defense to repayment application within the applicable number of years of separating from leaving your school. One of two things will happen. If you filed your application within the applicable limitation period and your loan payments exceed the amount owed after your discharge is applied , you will be eligible for a refund of payments. Your loan servicer will apply the borrower defense discharge to your student loan account and then determine whether you still have an outstanding amount balance due on any Direct Loans. If a balance remains on your account after your discharge is applied , your servicer will apply any prior payments made on the discharged loans first to the remaining balance of your discharged loans and then to the balance of other Direct Loans on your account. If no balance remains on your account , your servicer will return the refund amount to you. If you filed your application outside the applicable limitation period or your loan payments are less than the amount owed after your discharge is applied , you will not be eligible for a refund of payments. Your loan servicer will not apply any prior payments made on the discharged loans or return any refund amount to you. Your loan servicer will let you know if you are eligible or ineligible for a refund of payments. Will interest be waived in addition to my discharge? For borrower defense applications received by ED on or before Jan. 1 , 2020 , ED will waive interest on the federal student loans that it holds for the period between the date you submitted your borrower defense application and the date of your notification email. ED is waiving interest in these cases because of the extended period of time it took to review claims. Your federal loan servicer will let you know what your remaining balance is after the interest waiver has been applied. Note: If you receive a 100% discharge , you do not receive a separate interest waiver because your entire loan balance, including any interest, is discharged. Q. I m a CCI borrower and received an email saying that my borrower defense claim is ineligible for relief. Is this email legitimate? Yes. ED completed its review of your application under the applicable Borrower Defense to Repayment regulations for discharge of your Direct Loans made in connection with your or your child s enrollment at a school operated by CCI, including Everest Institute, Everest College, Everest University, Heald College, and WyoTech. ED has determined that your application is ineligible for relief based on review of the facts of your claim and the regulatory criteria for relief ; this decision means that your Direct Loans will not be discharged. ED s reasons for this determination are as follows : Applicable Law For Direct Loans first disbursed prior to July 1 , 2017 , a borrower may be eligible for a discharge forgiveness of part or all of one or more Direct Loans if the borrower s school engaged in acts or omissions that would give rise to a cause of action against the school under applicable state law. See 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended , 20 U.S.C. 1087e , and 34 CFR 685.206 and 685.222 the Borrower Defense regulations. ED recognizes a borrower s defense to repayment of a Direct Loan only if the cause of action directly relates to the Direct Loan or to the school s provision of educational services for which the Direct Loan was provided. 34 CFR 685.206 , 685.222 ; U.S. Department of Education, Notice of Interpretation , 60 Fed. Reg. 37,769 July 21 , 1995. Borrower Defense Claims Based on CCI Job Placement Rates ED has determined that students who first enrolled in certain programs at certain schools operated by CCI between 2010 and 2014 have borrower defense claims arising from the publication of misleading job placement rates for many of their programs of study and are eligible for a discharge of part or all of their loans under ED s Borrower Defense regulation. Lists of covered programs and time periods are available for Everest / WyoTech and Heald the covered programs. In order to have a successful borrower defense claim based on ED s CCI findings , you must have enrolled in one of the covered programs during a listed time period. ED has established a process for the review of borrower defense to repayment claims for job placement rates asserted by borrowers enrolled in the covered programs at CCI schools during the eligibility period. Each CCI borrower s application is reviewed under the same process to determine whether the borrower qualifies for borrower defense to payment relief based on a CCI school job placement rate claim. Why was my CCI application determined to be ineligible? A. ED reviewed your application regarding the campuses you attended, the programs in which you enrolled, and the dates that you enrolled. ED also reviewed data from the National Student Loan Data System NSLDS database and, if available, school - provided data regarding your programs and enrollment dates, in addition to the enrollment information on any official school documents that you provided with your application. You includes your child if you are a Direct PLUS Loan borrower who requested a discharge for loans taken out to pay for a child s enrollment at a CCI - operated institution. Based on that review , ED has determined that you did not enroll in a covered program at a CCI school during the eligibility period. Either a the initial enrollment dates or programs you provided in your application fell outside the eligibility period for a covered program at one or more of the CCI campuses or b both NSLDS data and the school s data demonstrated that you were not enrolled in a covered program at one or more of the CCI schools during the eligibility period. Moreover , your borrower defense application did not describe any other act or omission by the CCI schools that related to the making of your Direct Loans for enrollment or the provision of educational services for which the Direct Loan was made and that would be actionable under state law. Accordingly , ED has determined that your borrower defense to repayment application is ineligible and will not discharge your Direct Loans. Your borrower defense application was evaluated based on California state law and the circumstances identified in your notification email. For borrower defense applications received by ED on or before Jan. 1 , 2020 , ED will waive interest on the federal student loans that it holds for the period between the date you submitted your borrower defense application and the date of your notification email. ED is waiving interest in these cases because of the extended period of time it took to review claims. As explained in the What should I do now? section of your email notification , wait to receive notification from your federal loan servicer. If you disagree with this decision , you can ask ED to reconsider your borrower defense application. Q. I m a non - CCI borrower and received an email saying that my borrower defense claim is ineligible for relief. Is this email legitimate? Yes. ED completed its review of your application under the applicable Borrower Defense to Repayment regulations for discharge of your Direct Loans made in connection with your or your child s enrollment at the school identified in that notification email. ED has determined that your application is ineligible for relief based on review of the facts of your claim and the regulatory criteria for relief ; this decision means that your Direct Loans will not be discharged. Applicable Law For Direct Loans first disbursed prior to July 1 , 2017 , a borrower may be eligible for a discharge forgiveness of part or all of one or more Direct Loans if the borrower s school engaged in acts or omissions that would give rise to a cause of action against the school under applicable state law. See 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended , 20 U.S.C. 1087e , and 34 CFR 685.206 and 685.222 the Borrower Defense regulations. ED recognizes a borrower s defense to repayment of a Direct Loan only if the cause of action directly relates to the Direct Loan or to the school s provision of educational services for which the Direct Loan was provided. 34 CFR 685.206 , 685.222 ; U.S. Department of Education, Notice of Interpretation , 60 Fed. Reg. 37,769 July 21 , 1995. Why was my non - CCI application determined to be ineligible? A. ED reviewed your borrower defense claim based on any evidence submitted by you in support of your application, your loan data from the NSLDS database, as well as evidence gathered from the sources identified in your notification email. Each allegation of misconduct you claimed is identified in your email along with the reason that claim failed. For borrower defense applications received by ED on or before Jan. 1 , 2020 , ED will waive interest on the federal student loans that it holds for the period between the date you submitted your borrower defense application and the date of your notification email. ED is waiving interest in these cases because of the extended period of time it took to review claims. As explained in the What should I do now? section of your email notification , wait to receive notification from your federal loan servicer. If you disagree with the percentage discharge determined under the formula or with other parts of this decision , you can ask ED to reconsider your borrower defense application. Q. I received more than one notification email about my borrower defense claim. Should this have happened? There are two circumstances that would result in your receipt of more than one notification email. If you have two email addresses associated with your borrower defense application , ED sent a notification email to both addresses. If you have a borrower defense application that was approved and a different borrower defense application that was determined to be ineligible , ED sent you a notification email specific to each application. To check the notification emails you received , contact our borrower defense hotline at 1 - 855 - 279 - 6207 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ET on Monday through Friday. What if I don t agree with the decision made regarding my borrower defense claim? If you disagree with ED s decision , you can ask ED to reconsider your borrower defense application. You can do so in one of two ways : Send a new email with the subject line Request for Reconsideration to BorrowerDefense@ed.gov. Include the number that appears with the words Request for Reconsideration in the What if I don t agree with this decision? section of your notification email. Mail your request to U.S. Department of Education, P.O. Box 1854 , Monticello, KY 42633. In your request for reconsideration , provide the following information : What you think was decided incorrectly Why you believe the decision was incorrect that you believe establishes that you are eligible for a different decision Any evidence We will not accept any request for reconsideration that includes new allegations of misconduct by your school. If you include new allegations of misconduct by your school in your reconsideration request , the request will be rejected. You must file a new application regarding acts or omissions by your school other than those described in the borrower defense application identified in your notification email, by submitting an application. In the new application , you should explain in the relevant sections the basis for any new borrower defense claims and submit all supporting evidence. ED will not place your federal student loans into forbearance or stopped collection activity when you file a request for reconsideration. In addition , if your borrower defense claim was approved , ED will not begin its review of your request for reconsideration until your federal loan servicer notifies you that the discharge has been completed. For more information about reconsideration , contact our borrower defense hotline at 1 - 855 - 279 - 6207 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ET on Monday through Friday. Can I apply for borrower defense if I have additional allegations? Yes. If you wish to file a new application regarding acts or omissions by your school other than those described in the borrower defense application identified in your notification email , submit an application. In the new application , you should explain in the relevant sections the basis for any new borrower defense claims and submit all supporting evidence. What should I know about repayment? A. ED offers a variety of loan repayment options, including standard, graduated, and extended repayment plans, which base your payment on your loan balance and interest rate, as well as income driven repayment plans, which base your payment on your income. Remember , that while you can choose a repayment plan that lowers your monthly payment amount, it may also increase the amount of interest you pay over time which sometimes is significantly more. For more information about student loan repayment options , visit StudentAid.gov/plans. If you don t begin or resume repayment when required , your loans may be placed into default. Defaulting on your loans subjects you to collection activity that includes administrative wage garnishment taking money out of your pay ; you may be owed offset of state and federal payments taking money owed to you by the government ; and litigation taking legal action against you.  Borrower Defense Discharge Earnings Information  The U.S. Department of Education ED notifies borrower defense applicants about its review of their claims for discharge. Some claims are approved for discharge and other claims are determined to be ineligible for discharge. For approved borrower discharge claims , ED calculates the amount of borrower defense discharge relief by comparing the earnings of those who completed the same or a similar program at a borrower s school median program earnings to the earnings of those who completed the same or a similar program at other schools median comparison earnings. Specifically , ED uses a statistical tool called standard deviation to identify the range of program earnings that would qualify for loan relief, and then divides that range into quartiles to determine the amount of relief a borrower would be provided. If your program earnings exceed the comparison earnings , then , even if you filed an approved claim , you will not receive a discharge unless your approved application is associated with Corinthian Colleges, Inc. CCI. If your approved application is associated with CCI , you will receive at least a 10% discharge. The larger the negative gap between your program earnings and comparison earnings , the greater the amount of loan discharge you receive. The Borrower Defense Partial Relief Methodology tables used by ED to determine relief percentages are provided for your reference. When viewing the earnings charts , note the following : No Data Available appears when there was no data available to complete a calculation. The wording under Program Name may not match exactly to the program name used by your school. There can be slight wording differences in the program name used by the school and the program name shown in the earnings chart. The word Diploma under the Credential column , means the same as Certificate Program, which is often used by schools. Corinthian Colleges , Inc. CCI Programs ITT Educational Services , Inc. Programs  Notifications Regarding Sweet v. DeVos Lawsuit  In June and early July 2020 , the U.S. Department of Education ED will email and mail notifications about the Sweet v. DeVos lawsuit to borrower defense applicants who are potential members of the group of borrowers to whom the lawsuit applies to inform them that there is a proposed settlement of the lawsuit. The settlement will not become final until it is approved by the court as fair, adequate, and reasonable. The notification describes how borrowers legal rights may be affected by the settlement. ED will send borrowers two notifications one by email and one by mail. The email notifications will be sent to borrowers from the email address noreply@studentaid.gov. The mailed notifications will be sent to borrowers in an envelope marked with Federal Student Aid s return address. If you have questions about notifications you receive that aren t answered below , there s more information about the Sweet v. DeVos lawsuit on Class Counsel s website at predatorystudentlending.org/sweet-v-devos-class-members/. Q. I received an email from noreply@studentaid.gov and/or a letter saying that I may be part of a group of borrowers under a lawsuit called Sweet v. DeVos. Are these communications legitimate? Yes. The case Sweet v. DeVos , No. 19-cv-3674 (N.D. Cal. ), is a lawsuit that was filed in a federal court in California by seven borrower defense applicants who represent, with certain exceptions, all borrowers with pending borrower defense applications as of April 7, 2020. The lawsuit challenges the fact that ED did not issue a final decision on any borrower defense applications from any school between June 2018 and December 2019. The lawsuit is ONLY about the fact that final decisions were not issued during that period of time, NOT whether those applications should result in loan cancellation or not. Now , both parties are proposing to settle this lawsuit. This proposed settlement is a compromise of disputed claims , and ED continues to deny that it has acted unlawfully. Who is included in the group of people the class represented by Sweet v. DeVos? The case Sweet v. DeVos includes all people who borrowed a Direct Loan or FFEL loan to pay for a program of higher education, who have asserted a borrower defense to repayment to the U.S. Department of Education, whose borrower defense has not been granted or denied on the merits, and who is not a class member in Manriquez v. DeVos, No. 17-cv-7210 (N.D. Cal. What are the terms of the proposed settlement? In the proposed settlement , ED agrees to resolve pending borrower defense applications of people who have borrower defense applications pending as of April 7 , 2020, on the following terms : ED will approve or deny all Sweet class members pending borrower defense applications within 18 months of when the settlement agreement is approved by the court. ED will notify you of whether your claim was approved, whether you will receive any loan cancellation, and if so, how much loan cancellation you will receive. If your application is approved and you are entitled to any loan discharge , ED will complete the process of canceling some or all of your outstanding loan debt within 21 months of the date on which the settlement agreement is approved by the court. ED will provide your lawyers with information about its progress making borrower defense decisions every three months, including how many decisions ED has made, how many borrowers have received a loan discharge, and any new borrower defense findings ED has made. ED confirms, consistent with governing law and existing policies, that if you are in default, it will not take action to collect your debt, such as by garnishing your wages that is, taking part of your paycheck or taking portions of your tax refund, while your application is pending. A copy of the proposed settlement is available online at predatorystudentlending.org/cases/sweet-v-devos. What will happen next? The court will need to approve the proposed settlement before it becomes final. The court will hold a public hearing, called a fairness hearing, to decide if the proposed settlement is fair. The hearing will be held on Oct. 1 , 2020, beginning at 8 a.m. Pacific time at the following address : United States District Court Northern District of California 450 Golden Gate Avenue , Courtroom 12 , 19th Floor San Francisco, CA 94102 What should I do in response to this notice? IF YOU AGREE with the proposed settlement , you do not have to do anything. You have the right to attend the fairness hearing, at the time and place above, but you are not required to do so. IF YOU DISAGREE WITH OR HAVE COMMENTS on the proposed settlement , you can write to the court or ask to speak at the hearing. You must do this by writing to the Clerk of the Court, at the following mailing address : Clerk of the Court United States District Court Northern District of California 450 Golden Gate Avenue San Francisco , CA 94102 Your written comments or request to speak at the fairness hearing must be postmarked by Aug. 20 , 2020. The Clerk of the Court will provide copies of the written comments to the lawyers who brought the lawsuit. Who are the lawyers for the Sweet v. DeVos class and how can I contact them? The class is represented by the Legal Services Center at Harvard Law School and Housing & Economic Rights Advocates. If you have questions about this lawsuit or about the proposed settlement , please visit their Frequently Asked Questions page at predatorystudentlending.org/sweet-v-devos-class-members/, which also has contact information for the lawyers who brought the lawsuit.  Notifications Regarding Manriquez v. DeVos Lawsuit  Beginning Dec. 26 , 2019 , the U.S. Department of Education ED will email notifications about the Manriquez v. DeVos lawsuit to borrower defense applicants who are potential members of the group of borrowers to whom the lawsuit applies. The email notifications will be sent to borrowers from the email address noreply@studentaid.gov. For borrowers without a good email address , ED will mail notifications. The mailed notifications will be sent to borrowers in an envelope marked with Federal Student Aid s return address. Each borrower will receive either an emailed notification or a mailed notification. If you have questions about notifications you receive that aren t answered below , there s more information about the Manriquez v. DeVos lawsuit on Class Counsel s website at harvardlaw.github.io/ppsl_dropdown/index. You can contact the lawyers representing the covered class in the Manriquez v. DeVos lawsuit by emailing CMclass@law.harvard.edu or calling 617 - 390 - 2612. Q. I received an email from noreply@studentaid.gov saying that I may be part of a group of borrowers protected under a lawsuit called Manriquez v. DeVos. Is this email legitimate? Yes. You may be part of a group referred to as a class that is protected in certain ways because of a lawsuit called Manriquez v. DeVos. The U.S. Department of Education ED contacted you to make sure you know how to determine if you are part of the class , what protections you have , that ED made mistakes recently that may have applied to you , what ED has done to fix the mistakes , and where to find more information about the lawsuit and your federal student loans. ED contacted you because its records show that you borrowed one or more Direct Loans to attend or for your child to attend Heald College, Everest Institute, or WyoTech, operated by Corinthian Colleges, Inc. ED s records also show that you asked to cancel some or all of your federal student loan debt because the school you attended or that your child attended did something wrong. This is known as a borrower defense application. The intent of the email was to inform you generally about the lawsuit and give you contact information for obtaining additional information if needed. How do I find out if I m part of the group / class and get more information? To determine if you re a member of the class in the Manriquez v. DeVos lawsuit , visit the website set up by the class lawyers. You can contact the lawyers representing the covered class in the Manriquez v. DeVos lawsuit by emailing CMclass@law.harvard.edu or calling 617 - 390 - 2612. ED will still review and decide your borrower defense even if you are not a member of the class. What protections does the class get? A June 2018 court order in the lawsuit stops ED from collecting federal student loan payments from members of the class until the lawsuit is over. Since June 2018 , class members have not been required to make any payments on their loans related to Everest, Heald, or WyoTech. Loans that were not in default as of June 2018 should be placed into something called forbearance or another appropriate repayment status, such as an income - driven repayment plan that requires a payment of zero dollars or in - school deferment status. These statuses mean no payments are required , and your loans cannot go into default. Loans that were in default as of June 2018 should be placed in what is known as a stopped collections status. This status means ED must stop collecting money from you, such as by taking part of your paycheck or tax refund. What mistakes have been made? Many people in the class did not receive these protections. Specifically , since June 2018 , that work for ED mistakenly ED and companies sent bills to students and parents for money they were not required to pay , collected money from students and parents that they were not required to pay , reduced tax refunds or paychecks from students and parents , and made negative reports to credit reporting agencies. ED sincerely regrets these mistakes. What has ED done to fix its errors? A. ED has confirmed that potential class members are in the correct repayment status. ED is working with the Department of the Treasury to make sure that other payments that should not have been made, or that you would not have made otherwise, are given back. ED has also worked to fix any bad credit reporting that came from its mistakes. ED will work harder to make sure further mistakes do not happen. ED will review accounts of all potential people in the class to make sure there are no additional problems.  Information and Resources for Help  If you have questions about borrower defense , you may call our borrower defense hotline : 1 - 855 - 279 - 6207. Representatives are available Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Eastern time. 
title : Regaining Eligibility | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Have you been told you can t get federal student aid any longer?  In most circumstances , there are things you can do to get back your eligibility for financial aid. You might lose federal student aid eligibility for a number of reasons. For instance , you might no longer meet one of the basic eligibility criteria , or you might have changed majors and no longer be enrolled in a program that makes you eligible to receive a specific type of funding for instance, a Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education [TEACH] Grant. We recommend you talk to your financial aid office about those and any other circumstances that cause you to lose eligibility. Meanwhile , below we provide some tips on how to get your eligibility back if you find yourself in one of the following situations :  What if I defaulted on my student loan but now I want to get more federal student aid?  You ll need to get out of default before you can receive aid again.  What if my grades slipped, or I haven t completed enough credits, and my financial aid office told me I can t get federal student aid?  You need to make satisfactory academic progress in college or career school in order to keep getting federal student aid. Talk to your school about whether you can appeal the decision that made you ineligible to continue receiving federal student aid.  What if I was an eligible noncitizen but my status expired or was revoked?  You ll need to reinstate the status that made you an eligible noncitizen, or become a citizen or permanent resident, before you can receive federal student aid. For information about reinstating your status or becoming a citizen , contact U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.  What if I was convicted of a drug offense but now I want to get more federal student aid?  If you ve lost eligibility due to a conviction for a drug offense , and you are not scheduled to regain eligibility this academic year , it is possible to regain eligibility early.  What if I m incarcerated?  Your incarceration affects your eligibility for different types of aid in different ways. If you are ineligible for a particular type of student aid due to your incarceration , you ll need to wait until you re released before you can get that type of aid.  What if I accidentally received more federal student loan or grant money than I was supposed to?  In certain cases , you ll need to repay the amount that was beyond the maximum that you were allowed to receive. You can either repay the excess all at once , or you can make arrangements to repay it a bit at a time. Once you ve repaid or made arrangements to repay the excess , you ll be able to receive additional federal student aid assuming you haven t reached the maximum amounts for all programs for which you are otherwise eligible. In other cases , your financial aid office might be able to adjust the amount of money you ll be getting from another federal student aid program to make up for the excess you received. If you have questions about repaying aid or getting additional aid , talk to the financial aid staff at your school.  What if I thought I had a high school diploma, but it turns out that I actually don t?  This situation might arise if, for instance, your high school is a diploma mill a school that charges a student a fee and requires him or her to complete little or no course work to get the diploma. If you don t have a high school diploma or an equivalent such as a General Educational Development GED certificate , you ll need to talk to the financial aid office at your school to find out what to do.  What if I was convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving fraud to obtain federal student aid funds?  You ll need to repay the funds to the U.S. Department of Education or in the case of a federal student loan to the holder or servicer of the loan.  What if I have property subject to a judgment lien?  If you have property subject to a judgment lien for a debt owed to the United States , you will have to pay your debt in full or make arrangements to pay the debt. 
title : Questions and Answers About FAFSA Completion Data | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  Questions and Answers About FAFSA Completion Data  Below are questions we ve heard about the Completion by High School and Public School District">data we provide on FAFSA completion by high school.  Basics  Missing or Duplicate High Schools  Low Completion Totals  Technical and Analytical  Basics  What is the source of data?  The source of the data is the U.S. Department of Education's Central Processing System.  What years of Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) submission and completion data are available?  Federal Student Aid releases data for the current 2018 19 cycle and provides a side - by - side comparison of the previous 2017 18 cycle. We also have an archive that contains data files from the 2017 18 cycle comparing it to the past 2016 17 cycle. Each file has the previous cycle data through the same date in the prior year as well as the 6-month and 12-month numbers for the previous cycle. Only numbers of submitted and completed FAFSA forms are available. No personally identifiable information for any FAFSA filer will be shared through this process. Email us at HSFAFSA@ed.gov if you see data that is inaccurate and/or you have suggestions for improvement. We welcome your input.  What is the difference between a submitted and a completed FAFSA form?  Submitted applications reflect all FAFSA forms submitted by students at that high school. These applications , however , can be subsequently rejected by the Central Processing System if they are missing key pieces of information. The applications that are not rejected are referred to as completed applications. Completed applications , therefore , are a subset of all submitted applications. If a FAFSA form is submitted but not complete , the student will receive an email from the Department of Education asking him or her to correct the FAFSA form. A completed FAFSA form is necessary to determine eligibility for federal student aid and often other forms of financial aid.  How often will the FAFSA submission data be updated?  From October through June , data releases are weekly. For the remainder of the calendar year , data releases occur every other Friday. (For high schools to track their progress, Federal Student Aid regularly updates estimates for the first 12 months of an application cycle. As of the 2017 18 FAFSA cycle, this is extended to the first 15 months of the application cycle and will cover October of one year through December of the following year.)  Missing or Duplicate High Schools  Why isn't my high school listed in these data files?  There are two primary reasons that you may not see your school on the list. Your school will not appear on the report if there are fewer than five completed applications. Your school may appear on the report , but it may be listed under an alternative name. Since school names are inherently student - reported , the reported name can vary considerably. In aggregating the data , our standard practice is to report the school name that is most commonly reported by applicants. It is possible this name is different than your formal school name. As a result , it is important to look for other variations of your school name and city. You do not need to request to be added to the list. Once a high school shows at least five completed FAFSA forms , their submission and completion totals will appear in the database.  I cannot find my high school within the FAFSA form's high school search results. What could be causing this? How do I go about getting my school included?  With a few exceptions discussed below , most high schools should be contained in our database on the FAFSA form. If you can t find your school , double - check your spelling of the city and school name , and then try your search again. Also , consider alternate names or cities that may be used. Sometimes the official location of the school reported to us is a suburb within a larger city, or vice - versa. If after trying various possibilities you still cannot find your institution , you may still continue forward by clicking next. Despite being unable to find your school , the information you type in will still be captured and recorded, so be sure the spelling is correct. For public schools , our database should contain every high school in the nation, unless the school was opened, merged, or otherwise changed its name within the past year or two. If you fit into one of these categories , your school may not be listed within the current FAFSA form, but will be listed on future FAFSA forms. For private schools , our database contains every high school that has participated in the U.S. Department of Education's Private School Survey. Visit the National Center for Education Statistics if your private school would like more information. If your private school only recently participated in the survey , your school may not be listed within the current FAFSA form, but will be listed on future FAFSA forms.  Why do there appear to be duplicates of the same school?  Since these school names are inherently student - reported , the reported name can vary considerably. In aggregating the data , our standard practice is to report the school name that is most commonly reported by applicants. However , when we are unable to determine if school name variations are referring to the same school , we err on the side of caution and do not aggregate the data to a single record and applicant count. In that instance , it may appear that there are duplicates of the same school. Email us at HSFAFSA@ed.gov if you believe your school has been listed more than once.  Low Completion Totals  Why is my number of FAFSA submissions or completions lower than I think it should be?  While we know that many high schools inadvertently overestimate their FAFSA completion rates , one reason your rates may be lower than expected is because your school could be listed more than once. This happens if students entered your school name in different ways on the FAFSA form. For instance , if some students listed " John Doe High School " and other students listed " Doe High School , " then your high school could be listed in more than one place. Please look for alternate names for your school. Email us at HSFAFSA@ed.gov if you find your school has been listed more than once.  I am a high school counselor or college access professional. What resources do you have to help increase FAFSA completion totals?  Federal Student Aid s Financial Aid Toolkit provides federal student aid information and outreach tools for counselors, college access professionals, nonprofit mentors, and others. The site helps counselors understand the basics of federal student aid, provides tips on hosting events along with sample PowerPoint presentations, provides suggested messages for social media and email outreach, and helps find other training opportunities.  I am a counselor at a high school with a lot of students age 20 or older. Why are my numbers so low?  Because there is no question on the FAFSA form that asks if an applicant is a high school senior , we must use several criteria to identify those applicants that are likely high school seniors. In this instance , the bulk of the students would likely not satisfy the age criteria requiring applicants to be less than 20 years of age at the cutoff date. Also , students must also be receiving their high school diploma, as opposed to a GED or other program, to fit this definition of a high school senior.  Technical and Analytical  The totals reported last year are different from the numbers reported now about last year. What is causing this?  There could be several causes for this, including the possibility that your institution is listed more than once in the data using alternate variations of the school's name or city. One other cause is a change we made in 2017 to our definition of a high school senior, which now aligns with other data we publicly release. In past years, we used proxies to determine whether an applicant was a first - time filer ; we now use true first - time filer status as one criterion for being a senior. While this impacts a relatively small number of applicants, if your total decreased compared to what we reported last year , then this may mean there were applicants that had applied in a previous year.  Can I add up all the submitted applications from a single state file to calculate a state total? What about adding up all the submitted applications from a single city?  The answer to both questions is no. The official location of a school or the location most commonly reported by students may actually be a suburb falling within a larger city's limits. For example , adding up all the applications reported under " New York City " would exclude any institutions reported being within " Queens " or even within " Jamaica, " a smaller neighborhood within the New York City Borough of Queens. Any analysis must also consider the impact of withholding the totals or names of schools with fewer than five completed applications. At its most basic level , summing the number of applications reported in these files always underestimates the number of applications. If an institution is reported as having " <5 " completed applications , one cannot assume there were zero applications. Further , the totals for some schools are never made public because their class sizes essentially preclude them from having enough completed applications to ever be disclosed publicly. Because this impacts some areas more than others , be sure to consider these and other factors when conducting any analyses.  Why do some districts appear in white on the maps?  Districts are listed as missing / insufficient data if any of the following conditions are true : The regulatory adjusted cohort graduation rate is missing e.g., if districts merged or a new district was created after 2009 10. A district has fewer than 15 students in the regulatory adjusted cohort graduation rate data. There s an unpredicted increase in the number of district graduating seniors e.g., a dramatic increase in the graduation rate, or if two districts merge under one district's name. A district has fewer than 10 projected graduates. A district has fewer than five completed FAFSA forms. The National Center Education Statistics Local Education Agency LEA code does not match the LEA code found in the Tiger / Line shapefile for the state. 
title : Total and Permanent Disability Discharge | Federal Student Aid#1    Document :  If you re totally and permanently disabled, you may qualify for a discharge of your federal student loans and/or Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant service obligation.  A total and permanent disability TPD discharge relieves you from having to repay a William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Direct Loan Program loan, a Federal Family Education Loan FFEL Program loan, and/or a Federal Perkins Loan or to complete a TEACH Grant service obligation. To qualify for a TPD discharge , you must complete and submit a TPD discharge application, along with documentation showing that you meet our requirements for being considered totally and permanently disabled, to Nelnet, the servicer that assists the U.S. Department of Education with the TPD discharge process. Note: Throughout this page , the words " we, " " our, " and " us " refer to the U.S. Department of Education.  How do I show that I qualify for a TPD discharge?  You can show that you qualify for a TPD discharge by providing documentation from one of three sources : the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs VA the Social Security Administration SSA a physician There are specific requirements for each type of supporting documentation that you can submit to show your eligibility.  VA Documentation  If you re a veteran , you can qualify for a TPD discharge by providing documentation from the VA that shows you have received a VA disability determination because you 1 have a service - connected disability that is 100 percent disabling; or 2 are totally disabled based on an individual unemployability rating.  SSA Documentation  If you re eligible for Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income , you can qualify for a TPD discharge if you provide a copy of your SSA notice of award or Benefits Planning Query showing that your next scheduled disability review will be five to seven years or more from the date of your last SSA disability determination. We work with the VA and the SSA to identify those who qualify for a discharge based on their status with the VA or the SSA. If we receive information from the appropriate agency indicating that you qualify for a TPD discharge , we ll send you a letter notifying you of your eligibility for discharge, along with a TPD discharge application. If you want to apply for a TPD discharge , all you need to do is complete and submit the discharge application, without having to provide any additional documentation of your eligibility for discharge.  Physician s Certification  You also can qualify for a TPD discharge by having a physician certify on the TPD discharge application that you are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity due to a physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death ; has lasted for a continuous period of at least 60 months ; or can be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 60 months. Substantial gainful activity is a level of work performed for pay or profit that involves doing significant physical or mental activities, or a combination of both. The physician who certifies your TPD discharge application must be a doctor of medicine M.D. or doctor of osteopathy / osteopathic medicine D.O. who is licensed to practice in the United States.  How do I apply for a TPD discharge?  You need to complete a TPD discharge application and send it, along with any required documentation of your eligibility for discharge, to Nelnet, the TPD discharge servicer. The TPD discharge application applies to all of your federal student loans and TEACH Grant service obligations. Nelnet assists us in administering the TPD discharge process and communicates with borrowers and TEACH Grant recipients on our behalf concerning TPD discharge requests. To learn more about applying for a TPD discharge and to obtain a TPD discharge application , visit our TPD Discharge website at disabilitydischarge.com and select " Application Process. " You can let Nelnet know that you want to apply and request a TPD discharge application by phone or email. If you do , any required payments on your federal student loans will stop for 120 days to give you time to submit your application and any required supporting documentation. You can contact Nelnet by email at disabilityinformation@nelnet.net and by phone at 1 - 888 - 303 - 7818 Monday Friday from 7 a.m. 2 a.m. Eastern time ET, and Saturday from 8 a.m. 7 p.m. ET. For additional ways to contact Nelnet, and to get more information about applying for a TPD discharge , visit our TPD discharge website.  Can a representative apply on my behalf and help me throughout the TPD discharge process?  Yes , you can designate an individual or organization to complete and submit your TPD discharge application on your behalf, and assist you throughout the discharge process. To designate a representative , you and your representative must complete an Applicant Representative Designation form. Nelnet must receive and process this form before working with your representative. You must submit this form even if your representative already has a power of attorney to act on your behalf in other matters. To download the Applicant Representative Designation form , visit the TPD Discharge website at disabilitydischarge.com and select Forms.  What happens after I submit a TPD discharge application?  After your application is received , Nelnet will explain the process for the review of your application. You won't be required to make any payments on your loans while your discharge application is being reviewed.  What happens if my TPD discharge request is approved?  This depends on the type of documentation you submitted to show us that you qualified for a TPD discharge.  VA Documentation  If we determine that you are totally and permanently disabled based on documentation from the VA , Nelnet will that your loans and/or TEACH Grant service obligation have been discharged notify you and instruct your loan holders to return any loan payments received on or after the effective date of the VA s disability determination to the person who made the payments.  SSA Documentation or Physician's Certification  If we determine that you are totally and permanently disabled based on SSA documentation or a physician's certification , Nelnet will notify you that your loans and/or TEACH Grant service obligation have been discharged ; instruct your loan holders to return any loan payments received after the date Nelnet received the SSA documentation or the date the physician certified your discharge application to the person who made the payments ; and notify you that you will be subject to a three - year postdischarge monitoring period that begins on the date the discharge is approved, and that your obligation to repay your loans or complete your TEACH Grant service obligation will be reinstated if you don t meet certain requirements at any time during this monitoring period.  What requirements do I have to meet during the three-year postdischarge monitoring period?  Your obligation to repay your loans or complete your TEACH Grant service obligation will be reinstated if, at any time during the three - year postdischarge monitoring period, you receive annual earnings from employment that exceed the poverty guideline amount for a family of two in your state, regardless of your actual family size ; a new federal student loan under the Direct Loan Program or a new TEACH Grant ; another disbursement payment of a Direct Loan or a TEACH Grant that was first disbursed paid out before your discharge was approved , and the new disbursement has not been returned to the loan holder or for a TEACH Grant to us within 120 days of the disbursement date ; or a notice from the SSA stating that you are no longer disabled , or that your next scheduled disability review will no longer be five to seven years from the date of your last SSA disability determination. Note: During the postdischarge monitoring period , Nelnet will require you to submit documentation of your annual earnings from employment on a form that Nelnet will provide. If you don't submit this form with the required documentation of your income , your obligation to repay your loans or complete your TEACH Grant service obligation will be reinstated. The poverty guideline amounts are updated annually by the Department of Health and Human Services. Nelnet will notify you of the current poverty guideline amounts during each year of the postdischarge monitoring period. For detailed information regarding the three - year postdischarge monitoring period requirements , visit the TPD Discharge website at disabilitydischarge.com and select Monitoring Period. If you're a veteran whose TPD discharge application is approved based on documentation from the VA , you aren't subject to a postdischarge monitoring period.  What happens if my obligation to repay my loans or satisfy my TEACH Grant service obligation is reinstated?  You will again be responsible for repaying your loans in accordance with the terms of the promissory note that you signed, or satisfying your TEACH Grant service obligation in accordance with the terms of the TEACH Grant Agreement to Serve that you completed. If you applied for a discharge of loans , your loans will be returned to the status they were in before you applied for discharge. This means that if a loan was in default before you applied for a TPD discharge, it will be returned to default status. If your obligation to repay your loans or complete your TEACH Grant service obligation is reinstated , Nelnet will explain the reason for the reinstatement and provide information about what you can do if you have questions about the reinstatement or if you believe the reinstatement was based on incorrect information.  What happens if my TPD discharge request is denied?  If we determine that you don t qualify for a TPD discharge , Nelnet will notify you of the reason for the denial of your discharge application ; explain that you may ask us to reevaluate your discharge application if you provide new information that supports your eligibility for discharge within 12 months of the date you are notified that your discharge application has been denied ; explain that if you don t request reevaluation of your discharge application within 12 months of the date you re notified that your discharge application has been denied, and you still want us to reevaluate your eligibility, you must submit a new TPD discharge application with new information about your disabling condition that was not provided with your prior discharge application ; explain that you re again responsible for repaying your loans, and that your loan holder will notify you when your first payment is due ; and explain that if you applied for a discharge of a TEACH Grant service obligation, you re again responsible for meeting the terms and conditions of the service obligation.  I received a TPD discharge but want to go back to school. Can I take out more student loans or TEACH Grants?  Yes , but with some conditions. If you received a TPD discharge based on VA documentation, SSA documentation, or a physician s certification , you must give your school a letter from a physician stating that you are once again able to engage in substantial gainful activity , and sign a statement acknowledging that you can't get a TPD discharge of the new loan or TEACH Grant based on a disabling condition that already exists when you receive the new loan or TEACH Grant, unless that condition substantially deteriorates in the future. If you received a TPD discharge based on SSA documentation or a physician s certification and your three - year postdischarge period hasn t ended , you must also resume repayment on your previously discharged loans or acknowledge that you are once again responsible for meeting the terms and conditions of your TEACH Grant service obligation.  If my loan is discharged due to TPD, do I have to pay taxes on the discharged loan amount?  Because of a change in federal law related to the taxability of loan amounts discharged due to TPD , the answer depends on when you received the discharge. If you received a TPD discharge of a loan before Jan. 1 , 2018 , the loan amount discharged may be considered income for federal tax purposes under Internal Revenue Service IRS rules. If you received a TPD discharge of a loan during the period from Jan. 1 , 2018 to Dec. 31 , 2025 , the discharged loan amount won t be considered income for federal tax purposes. For purposes of determining whether a loan amount discharged due to TPD may be treated as taxable income for federal tax purposes , the date you are considered to have received the discharge is different depending on how you qualified for the discharge. If you re a veteran who showed that you re totally and permanently disabled based on a disability determination by the VA , you re considered to have received the discharge for federal tax purposes on the date we approve the discharge. If you showed that you re totally and permanently disabled based on documentation from the SSA or a physician s certification meaning that you re subject to a three - year postdischarge monitoring period , you re considered to have received the discharge for federal tax purposes at the end of the postdischarge monitoring period. For example , if your discharge was approved in July 2017 , you would not be considered to have received the discharge for federal tax purposes until July 2020, at the end of the three - year postdischarge monitoring period. Therefore , the IRS would not consider the discharged loan amount to be taxable income for federal tax purposes. If you receive a Form 1099-C, you should keep the form for your records , but you do not need to include it when filing your federal tax return. For additional information , visit irs.gov. Loan amounts discharged due to TPD may still be considered income for state tax purposes. If you receive a TPD discharge of a federal student loan , you may want to consult with your state tax office or a tax professional before you file your state tax return.  Where can I find more information about TPD discharge?  For more detailed information about TPD discharge , visit the TPD discharge website at disabilitydischarge.com. 
