Introduce yourself to the patient. 1.             Cough. 2.             Sputum. 3.             Haemoptysis (acute infection including in COPD, pulmonary infarction, bronchogenic carcinoma, bronchiectasis, TB,  Goodpasture's syndrome, puhnonary haemosiderosis, mitral stenosis). 4.             Dyspnoea · Intermittent (asthma, recurrent pulmonary oedema, exacerbations of COAD). · Over days (pleural fluid,  carcinoma of bronchus, heart failure). · Over months to years (COAD, fibrosing alveolitis, anaemia, fibrotic lung disease). · Over a  few hours (pulmonary oedema, bronchial asthma, pneumonia). · Acute or sudden (pneumothorax, pulmonary oedema, inhaled  foreign body). 5.             Wheezing (airways limitation including asthma, COAD). 6.             Chest pain (pleurisy, tracheitis). 7.             Smoking. 8.             Family history.EXAMINATION1. Place the patient in a sitting position and ask whether he or she is comfortable. 2. Examine the sputum cup and comment on the  sputum. 3.             Examine the patient from the foot end of the bed and comment as follows: ·               Whether the patient is breathless at rest. ·               On wasting, if any, in the infraclavicular region. ·                On diminished movement on the right or left side. ·                Count the respiratory rate. 4.             Examine the hands: · Clubbing. · Cyanosis. ·               Tar staining (the yellow 'nicotine' staining is actually due to tar). ·               Examine the pulse for bounding pulse and asterixis (signs of carbon monoxide narcosis). 5. Examine the face: ·               Comment on the tongue, looking for central cyanosis. · Comment on the eyes, looking for pallor and evidence of Horner's syndrome.  6. Examine the neck: ·               Comment on neck veins. ·               Check for cervical lymphadenopathy. ·               Comment on the trachea: -Whether or not it is deviated. -The  distance between the cricoid cartilage and suprasternal notch. 
7. Palpate: 
·       Apex beat. ·       Movements on both sides with the fingers symmetrically placed in the intercostal spaces on both sides. ·       Vocal fremitus (tell the examiner that you would prefer to do vocal resonance because it gives the same information and is  
more reliable). 
8.     Percussion: percuss over supraclavicular areas, clavicles, upper, middle and lower chest on both sides. 9.     Auscultation: 
·       Over supraclavicular areas, upper, middle and lower chest on both sides -comment on breath sounds (whether vesicular  
or bronchial) and on adventitious sounds (wheeze, crackles or pleural rub). If crackles are heard, ask the patient to cough  and then repeat auscultation. It is important to time the crackles to ascertain whether they occur in early, mid or late  inspiration. 
·       While auscultating the front of the chest, seize the opportunity to listen to the second pulmonary sound. ·       Check for vocal resonance by asking the patient to repeat 'one, one, one'. ·       Check for forced expiratory time (FET) if your diagnosis is chronic obstructive airways disease (COAD) by asking the  
patient to exhale forcefully alter full inspiration while you are listening over the trachea: if the patient takes more than 6  seconds, airway disease is indicated. 
10. Ask the patient to sit forward: 
·       Palpate - assess expansion posteriorly. ·       Percuss - on both sides including axillae. ·       Auscultate - posteriorly including the axillae. 
none;text-autospace:none;direction:ltr;unicode-bidi:embed'>I 1. Remember to look for signs of middle  
lobe disease in the right axilla. 

Examine this patient's chest from the back. Examine this patient's chest from the front.SALIENT FEATURESHistory ·       Fever. ·       Pleuritic pain (made worse on coughing or deep breathing). ·       Cough (pneumonia, TB). ·       Haemoptysis (associated parenchymal involvement in bronchogenic carcinoma or TB). ·       Shortness of breath (large effusions, cardiac failure). ·       Exposure to asbestos (mesothelioma). ·       Nephrotic syndrome.Examination· Decreased movement on the affected side. · Tracheal deviation to the opposite side. * Stony dull note on the affected side. · Decreased vocal resonance and diminished breath sounds on the affected side. Proceed as follows: · Comment on aspiration marks. · Percuss for the upper level of effusion in the axilla. · Listen for bronchial breath sounds. · Listen for aegophony at the upper level of the effusion. ·       It is important to elicit any evidence of an underlying cause, such as clubbing, tar staining, lymph nodes, radiation burns and  
mastectomy, raised JVP, rheumatoid hands or butterfly rash. 
Remember. 500 mi of pleural fluid should be present for clinical detection and there are 5 major types of pleural effusion: exudate,  transudate, empyema, haemor-rhagic pleural effusion or haemothorax, and chylous effusion.DIAGNOSISThis patient has a pleural effusion (lesion), probably due to bronchogenic carci-noma, and is short of breath at rest (functional  status). 
Read review: Postgrad Med d 1993; 69:12 18; Thorax 1979: 304: 106. 
QUESTIONS How would you investigate this patient? Chest radiography (CXR) Standard posteroanterior and lateral chest radiographs detect pleural fluid in excess of 175 ml. Obliteration of costophrenic angle to  hemithorax suggests fluid. Sub-pulmonic effusion can simulate an elevated diaphragm. Pleural tap ·       Pleural fluid for determination of the levels of protein, albumin, LDH, glucose, cholesterol and cytology. A simultaneous blood  
sample should be obtained for estimation of glucose, protein, albumin and LDH. 
·       When empyema is suspected or seen, pleural fluid pH should be obtained. ·       When tuberculosis is suspected, pleural fluid adenosine deaminase or lysozyme levels should be determined and  
Ziehl-Neelsen staining and pleural fluid myco-bacterial cultures should be done. 
·       Pleural fluid amylase levels should be estimated when malignancy, pancreatitis or oesophageal rupture is suspected. ·       In autoimmune disorders, pleural fluid rheumatoid factor or antinuclear anti-bodies should be tested. P!eural biopsy The biopsy specimen is sent for histopathological examination and mycobacterial culture. What are the causes of dullness at a lung base? 
· Pleural effusion. · Pleural thickening. · Consolidation and collapse of the lung. · Raised hemidiaphragm. How would you differentiate between the above? ·       Pleural effusion: stony dull note; trachea may be deviated to the opposite side in large effusions. ·       Pleural thickening: trachea not deviated; breath sounds will be heard. ·       Consolidation: vocal resonance increased; bronchial breath sounds and associated crackles. ·       Collapse: trachea deviated to the affected side; absent breath sounds. How would you differentiate between an exudate and a transudate? ·       The protein content of an exudate is more than 3 g/l. However, if this criterion alone is applied, about 10% of the exudates and  
15% of the transudates will be wrongly classified. A more accurate diagnosis is made when Light's criteria (Ann Intern Med  1972; 77: 507-13) for an exudate are applied: (1) the ratio of the pleural fluid to serum protein is greater than 0.5; (2) the ratio of  pleural fluid to serum lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) is greater than 0.6; (3) pleural fluid LDH is greater than two thirds the upper  normal limit for blood LDH levels. Roth et al (1990) found that, althomzh Light's criteria had a sensitivity of 100%, they had a  low specificity of 72% (Chest 1990; 98: 546-9). This was due to the fact that many patients with effusion due to chronic cardiac  failure have protein values in 
the exudate range, particularly when on chronic diuretic therapy. They found that the serum-effusion albumin gradient (i.e. serum  albumin minus pleural fluid albumin) was 95% sensitive but a more specific (100%) marker of exudative effusion. A gradient of less  than 1.2 g/dl indicates an exudative effusion whereas a gradient greater than 1.2 g/dl indicates a transudative effusion. ·       The pleural fluid cholesterol level is below 60 mg/dl in transudates. All malignant effusions have a pleural cholesterol level  
greater than this value, and therefore this test is useful to separate these two categories of effusion (Chest 1987; 92: 296-302;  Chest1991; 99: 1097-102). 
Mention a few causes for an exudate and a transudate. Causes for  an exudate: · Bronchogenic carcinoma (presence of effusion is an ominous sign). · Secondaries in the pleura (lung, breast, ovary and pancreas). · Pneumonia. · Pulmonary infarction. · Tuberculosis. · Rheumatoid arthritis. · SLE. · Lymphoma (in young individuals). · Mesothelioma. Causes of a  transudate: · Nephrotic syndrome. · Cardiac failure. · Liver cell failure. · Hypothyroidism.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSMention a few conditions in which the pleural fluid pH and glucose levels are Iow with a raised LDH concentration. Empyema, malignancy, tuberculosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and oesophageal rupture. What is the value of measuring pleural fluid pH and glucose concentrations in cases of malignant effusions?  This is of value in determining the prognosis (Ann Intern Med 1988; 108: 345-9).  Patients with a low pleural fluid pH (<7.3) or low glucose concentration (<60 mg/dl) have a shorter life expectancy than those with  higher values: 2.1 months versus 9.8 months. The low pH group tends to have more extensive pleural involvement as determined by  thoracoscopy and a higher failure rate for chemical pleurodesis. What further investigation would you perform to determine the underlying cause of the pleural effusion?  · Pleural biopsy. ·  CT chest scan. ·       Magnetic resonance imaging of the chest: although this technique has limited value owing to motion artefacts caused by  
cardiac and respiratory movements, 
radiologists were able to differentiate transudates, simple exudates and complex exudates. What is the role of pleural fluid cytology in the diagnosis of pleural effusion ? ·       Pleural fluid usually contains about 1500 cells per gl (predominantly mono-nuclear cells). Counts above 50 000 are seen in  
parapneumonic effusions, whereas transudates usually have counts of less than 1000 cells per Itl. 
·       Pleural fluid eosinophilia, i.e. greater than 10%, suggests a benign disease, including pneumothorax, asbestos-related  
effusions and post haemothorax, although malignancy cannot be excluded. 
·       Pleural fluid lymphocytosis is seen in about one third of transudates, in malignancy, tuberculosis, lymphoma, collagen vascular  
diseases and sarcoidosis. 
·       Computerized interactive morphometry (analyses the size and nuclei of cells in a stained centrifuged specimen)  
differentiatesbetween malignant cells and reactive lymphocytosis. This method is particularly useful when differentiating  between benign reactive mesothelial cells and malignancy. 
What characteristics of the  pleural fluid  in a parapneumonic effusion indicate a need for closed-tube drainage? A pleural fluid glucose concentration of less than 40 mg/dl or a pH less than 7.0 indicates the need/¥r closed-tube drainage. What does a  pleural fluid total neutral  fat level greater than 400 mg/dl suggest? It suggests chylothorax and is seen most often in patients with lymphomas, solid tumours, nephrotic syndrome and cirrhosis, and  occasionally in rheumatoid arthritis. What is the significance of pleural fluid amylase levels? A pleural fluid amylase level greater than the serum amylase concentration is seen in patients with pancreatitis, carcinoma, bacterial  pneumonia and oesophageal rupture. In malignant effusions, when cytology cannot differentiate adenocarcinoma from  mesothelioma, a raised amylase level suggests the presence of the former. Amylase-rich pleural effusions occur frequently, and  pleural fluid isoamylase determination can be useful; the finding of a pleural effusion rich in salivary isoamylase should prompt an  evaluation for carcinoma (particularly a lung primary), but may also be seen in other pleural inflammatory conditions (Chest 1992;  102: 1455-9). What are the causes of an exudate with negative cytology findings and pleural fluid lymphocytosis? Possible causes include tuberculosis, collagen vascular diseases and tumours, including lymphoma. In such patients, what other tests could you perform on the pleural fluid to determine the underlying cause? ·       Pleural fluid adenosine deaminase concentration (an enzyme involved in purine metabolism and found in T lymphocytes) is  
markedly raised in tuberculous and rheumatoid effusions compared with malignant effnsion 
·       Increased pleural fluid lysozyme concentration (muramidase) is used to differ-entiate tuberculosis, rheumatoid arthritis and  
empyema from malignant effusions. 
·       Combined use of the latter two tests yields a sensitivity and specificity of 100% for tuberculous et'tusions if empyema ~s  
excluded. 
·       Gamma-interferon and soluble interleukin 2 receptor levels are also raised in tuberculous effusions compared with malignant  
effusions. 
·       Estimation of pleural fluid rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibodies is useful in confirming the diagnosis of rheumatoid and  
lupus erythematosus respectively. 
In which conditions is the pleural fluid bloody? Haemorrhagic fluid is seen in malignancy, pulmonary embolus, tuberculosis and trauma to the chest. What are the earliest radiological signs of pleural fluid? The earliest radiological signs are blunting of the costophrenic angle on the anterior-posterior view or loss of clear definition of the  diaphragm posteriorly on the lateral view. How would you confirm your suspicions when in doubt of a small effusion ? Either by a lateral decubitus view (which shows a layering of the fluid along the dependent chest wall unless the fluid is loculated) or  by ultrasonography. What are the other uses of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of pleural effusion ? Ultrasonography is also useful for loculated effusions, for guided thoracocentesis, closed pleural biopsy or insertion of a chest drain,  and to differentiate pleural fluid from pleural thickening. What is a pseudotumour? It is the accumulation of fluid between the major or minor fissure or along the lateral chest wall, and can be mistaken for a tumour on  the radiograph. Such loculated effusions can be confirmed with ultrasonography. What do you know about pleural disease in rheumatoid arthritis? About 70% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis have pleural inflammation at autopsy and about 5% have radiological evidence of  pleural inflammation at some time. Pleural involvement is associated with male sex, rheumatoid factor in serum, the presence of  nodules and other systemic manifestations. The effusion is thought to develop as an inflammatory response to the presence of  multiple subpleural nodules. For reasons that are entirely unclear, the left side is the more common site of unilateral rheumatoid  pleural effusions. The pleural fluid glucose level is characteristically low and is said to be due to an 'entrance block' in which glucose  is unable to enter the pleural space, unlike in empyema and malignant effusions where the low pleural fluid glucose concentration is  attributed to the increased use of glucose by cells. Cytological appearances of slender and elongated macrophages, round giant  multinucleated macrophages, presence of very few mesothelial cells and necrotic background material are thought to be  pathognomonic of rheumatoid pleuritis. What are the complications of thoracocentesis? Pneumothorax, haemothorax, intravascular collapse and unilateral pulmonary oedema (the latter after withdrawal of large quantities  of fluid). 
What do you know about Meigs' syndrome? Meigs' syndrome comprises pleural effusion (usually right-sided and a transudate) associated with ovarian tumours (usually benign  ovarian fibroma). Mention some causes of drug-induced pleural effusion. Practolol, procarbazine, methysergide, bromocriptine, methotrexate                          and nitrofurantoin. The patient used to be a shipbuilder: what diagnosis would you consider? It is most likely that this patient has malignant mesothelioma. If' the diagnosis is confirmed, I would advise him to apply for industrial  injuries benefit. What are the mechanisms for abnormal accumulation of pleural  fluid? There are three main mechanisms: ·       An abnormality of the pleura itself, such as a neoplasm or inflammatory process, usually associated with increased  
permeability. 
·       Disruption of the integrity of a fluid-containing structure within the pleural cavity, such as the thoracic duct, oesophagus, major  
blood vessels or tracheobronchial tree, with leakage of the contents into the pleural space. 
·       Abnormal hydrostatic or osmotic forces operating on an otherwise normal pleural surface and producing a transudate. 
INSTRUCTION This patient presented with sudden onset of lateral chest pain aggravated by deep inspiration and coughing. Listen to this patient's  chest. Examine her chest. SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Sharp localized pain worse on coughing or deep respiration. ·       Nature of the sputum (purulent expectoration in a patient with chest infection, haemoptysis in puhnonary embolism). ·       Drug history (oral contraceptives). Examination Pleural rub (superficial, scratchy, grating sound heard on deep inspiration). 
Proceed  as follows: ·       D~tlerentiate between pleural rub and crackles by asking the patient to cough and check whether or not there is any change in  
the nature. (Note. No change with the pleural rub.) 
·       Tell the examiner that you would like to listen for tachycardia and right ven-tricular gallop (pulmonary embolism).DIAGNOSISThis patient has a pleural rub (lesion) which is caused by either underlying infection or pulmonary embolism (aetiology). You would  like to analyse blood gases to determine whether she is hypoxic (functional status).QUESTIONSHow would you investigate this patient? · Full blood count. · Sputum cultures. · Blood gases. · ECG. · CXR. ·  Ventilation-perfusion scan.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat would you expect to see in the ventilation-perfusion scan in a patient with pulmonary embolism? In acute pulmonary embolism the area of decreased perfusion usually has normal ventilation, whereas in pneumonia there are  abnormalities in both the ventilation and perfusion scan. How would you treat a patient with pulmonary embolism? · Initially with heparin and then with oral anticoagulants for at least 3 months. · Pain relief for pleurisy. 
What are the ECG changes in pulmonary embolism? These include: · Sinus tachycardia. · Tall R wave in lead VI. · SI, S2, S3 syndrome (S waves in limb leads I, II and III). ·       S 1, Q3, T3 syndrome (S in limb lead I and Q wave and inverted T wave in limb lead III). 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's chest. SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Determine whether there is a reversible airway obstruction by history. Are the wheezing and breathlessness reversible? ·       Tightness in the chest. ·       Recurrent cough. ·       Exacerbation of the cough or wheeze at night or after exercise. ·       Improvement of the cough or wheeze with bronchodilator therapy. ·       Fever, yellowish sputum. ·       History of atopy (eczema, hay fever). ·       History of rhinitis, nasal polyps. Examination · Bilateral scattered wheeze. · Examine the sputum cup. ·       Comment on accessory muscles of respiration, tachycardia, pulsus paradoxus and whether the patient can utter sentences  
without stopping to take a breath. 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has a history of hay fever and bilateral scattered wheeze (lesion) due to bronchial asthma (aetiology), and is breathless  at rest (functional status). QUESTIONS Mention a few trigger factors known to aggravate asthma. · Infection. · Emotion. · Exercise. · Drugs, e.g. beta-blockers. · External allergens. What do you understand by the term 'asthma'? Asthma is an inflammatory disorder characterized by hyper-responsiveness of the airway to various stimuli, resulting in widespread  narrowing of the airway. The changes are reversible, either sp~mtaneou,;ly or as a resnh of therapy 
Intrinsic asthma is of non-allergic aetiology and usually begins after the age of 30 years. It tends to be more continuous and more  severe: status asthmaticus is common in this group. What do you understand by the term 'extrinsic asthma'? Extrinsic asthma has a clearly defined history of allergy to a variety of inhaled factors and is characterized by a childhood onset and  seasonal variation. What are the indications for steroids in chronic asthma? · Sleep is disturbed by wheeze. · Morning tightness persists until midday. · Symptoms and peak expiratory flows progressively deteriorate each day. · Maximum treatment with bronchodilators. · Emergency nebulizers are needed. 
What is the effect of reducing or discontinuing inhaled budesonide in patients with mild asthma? Early treatment with inhaled budesonide results in long-lasting control of mild asthma (i.e. FEV~ more than 85% of predicted value).  Maintenance therapy can usually be given at a reduced dose, but discontinuation of treatment is often accom-panied by  exacerbation of the disease. How would you manage a patient with acute asthma? · Nebulized beta-agonists, e.g. terbutaline or salbutamol. · Oxygen, using a high concentration. · High-dose steroids: intravenous hydrocortisone or oral prednisolone or both. · Blood gases. · CXR to rule out pneumothorax. When life-threatening features are present: ·       Add ipratropium to nebulized beta-agonist. ·       Intravenous aminophylline or salbutamol or terbutaline. What do you know about the British Thoracic Society step care regimen for the management of chronic asthma in adults  (Thorax /997:  52: S1-24)? ·       Step 1: Inhaled short-acting beta-agonists used as required for symptom relief. If required more than once, go to step 2. ·       Step 2: Step I plus regular inhaled anti-inflammatory agents (such as beclomethasone, budesonide, cromoglicate or nedocromil  
sodium). 
·       Step 3: Step I plus high-dose inhaled steroids (using a large-volume spacer) or low-dose inhaled steroids plus a long-acting  
inhaled beta-agonist bronchodilator. 
·       Step 4: Step I plus high-dose inhaled steroids and regular bronchodilators (long-acting inhaled or oral beta-agonists,  
sustained-release theophylline, inhaled ipratropium). 
·       Step 5: Step 4 plus addition of oral steroids. 
Patients should be started on treatment at the step most appropriate to the initial severity. A rescue course of prednisolone may be  needed at any time and at any step. Stepwise reduction in treatment should be undertaken after the asthma has been stable over a  3-6-month period. What are the features of acute severe asthma? · Inability to complete a sentence in one breath. · Respiration rate greater than 25 per minute. · Pulse rate greater than 110 beats per minute. · Peak expiratory flow rate less than 50% of predicted or best. What are the life-threatening indicators in acute asthma? · Peak expiratory flow rate less than 33% of predicted or best. · Exhaustion, confusion, coma. · Silent chest, cyanosis or feeble respiratory effort. · Bradycardia or hypotension. Note. Arterial blood gases should be measured if anyof these features are present or if oxygen saturation is less than 92%. What are the indicators of a very severe, life-threatening attack? · Normal (5-6 kPa, 36-45 mmHg) or increased carbon dioxide tension. · Severe hypoxia of less than 8 kPa (60 mmHg). · Low pH. What is the value of assessing pulsus paradoxus in a patient with acute severe asthma ? It is a poor guide to the severity of acute asthma as it compares poorly with the measurement of peak flow. In which other conditions is wheeze a prominent sign? Chronic obstructive airway disease, left ventricular failure (cardiac asthma), poly-arteritis nodosa, eosinophilic lung disease,  recurrent thromboembolism, tumour causing localized wheeze. What are the indications for mechanical ventilation with  intermittent  positive pressure ventilation ? · Worsening hypoxia (Pao2 <8 kPa) despite 60% inspired oxygen. · Hypercapnia (Pace2 >6 kPa). · Drowsiness.  · Unconsciousness. rofessor Peter J. Barnes, contemporary chest physician, National Institute for Heart and Lung  Diseases,  London; his major interest  is asthma. 
·       Productive cough. ·       Increasing dyspnoea. ·       Weight loss. *      History of smoking. ·       History of alpha-antitrypsin deficiency. Examination ·       Begin with examination of the sputum pot. ·       Observe the patient from the end of the bed - for obvious breathlessness, pursed lip breathing and symmetrical chest  
movements - and count respiratory rate. 
·       Look for nail changes such as tar staining. ·       Feel the palms for warmth and the pulse for rapid bounding pulse (signs of carbon dioxide retention). ·       Look at the lips and tongue for central cyanosis. Neck ·       Comment on the active contractions of the accessory muscles of respiration such as sternocleidomastoids, scaleni and trapezii. ·       Palpate for tracheal deviation and measure the distance between the cricoid cartilage and suprasternal notch (less than three  
fingers' breadth in emphysema). 
·       Comment on the raised JVP. Chest Comment on the barrel-shaped chest. Palpate for: · Apex beat. · Chest expansion. · Vocal fremitus. Percussion: Look for hyper-resonance and obliteration of cardiac and liver dullness. Auscultate for: · Breath sounds (diminished breath sounds). · Vocal resonance. ·       Forced expiratory time: normal individuals can empty their chest from full inspiration in 4 seconds or less. The end-point of FET  
is detected by auscultating 
over the trachea in the suprasternal notch. Prolongation of the FET to more than 6 seconds indicates airflow obstruction. · Loud pulmonary second heart sound. Abdomen Palpable liver due to hepatic displacement comment on upper border of liver by percussion).DIAGNOSISp class=MsoNormal style='text-align:left;mso-pagination:none;mso-layout-grid-align:  none;text-autospace:none;direction:ltr;unicode-bidi:embed'>This patient has features of chronic  
obstructive airway disease (COAD) (lesion) due to cigarette smoking (aetiology) and is very cyanosed at rest (functional status).QUESTIONSWhat do you understand by the term 'chronic bronchitis'? Chronic bronchitis is cough with mucoid expectoration for at least 3 months in a year for 2 successive years. 
What is the definition of emphysema? Emphysema is the abnormal permanent enlargement of the airway distal to the terminal respiratory bronchioles with destruction of  their walls. Clinical, radiological and lung function tests give an imprecise picture in an individual case but a com-bination of all these  features gives a reasonable picture. What do you understand by the term 'COAD'? The term COAD encompasses chronic obstructive bronchitis (with obstruction of small airways) and emphysema (with destruction of  lung parenchyma, loss of lung elasticity, and closure of small airways). Most patients also have mucus plugging (N Engl J Med 2000:  343: 269).ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat is the mechanism of  airflow limitation  in COAD? It is a variable mixture of loss of alveolar attachments, inflammatory obstruction of the airway and luminal obstruction with mucus. What is the role of inflammatory mechanisms in COAD? Macrophages and epithelial cells in airways are activated by cigarette smoke and other irritants and release neutrophil chemotactic  factors including interleukin-8 and leukotriene B4. Neutrophils and macrophages then release proteases that break down connective  tissue in the lung parenchyma, resulting in emphysema, and also stimulate hypersecretion of bronchial mucus. The chronic  inflammatory process in COPD differs markedly from that seen in bronchial asthma, with different inflam-matory cells, mediators,  inflammatory effects and responses to treatment (Thorax 1998: 53:129 36; Chest 2000; 117 (suppl): 10S-14S)................... r- ..................................................... j ............In  C©AD the protease-antiprotease balance is tipped in favour of proteolysis because of either an increase in proteases (including  neutrophil elastase, proteinase 
3, cathepsins, matrix metalloproteases 1, 2, 9 and 12) or a deficiency of anti-proteases (including tz~-anUtrypsin, elafin, secretory  leukoprotease inhibitor and tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteases). What is the role of high-resolution CT in the diagnosis of emphysema ?  It is the most sensitive (but expensive) technique for the diagnosis of emphysema. It is useful in evaluating  symptomatic patients with almost normal pulmonary function except for a low carbon monoxide diffusing capacity - a combination of  findings that occurs in emphysema, interstitial lung disease and pulmonary vascular disease (Radiology 1992; 182:817-21 ). How would you differentiate emphysema from chronic bronchitis? Emphysema                   Chronic bronchitis                                                 Pink puffer                     Blue bloater Cyanosis                                 Absent                           Prominent Dyspnoea                                ++                                  + Hyperinflation                          ++                                  + Cor pulmonale                         -                                     Common Respiratory drive                    High                               Low If the patient was between the ages of 30 and 45 years, what would you consider to be the underlying cause of the  emphysema?  Smoking, alpha-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency. How would you treat an acute exacerbation? · Nebulized bronchodilators (terbutaline, ipratropium bromide). ·       Intravenous antibiotics (BMJ 1994; 308:871 2), initially amoxicillin and, if there is no clinical response, then a  
second-generation cephalosporin, quinoline or co-amoxiclav. 
·       Oxygen (24%). ·       Intravenous hydrocortisone and oral steroids. (Note. Steroid therapy is useful only in acute exacerbations and, unlike in asthma,  
it does not influence the course of chronic bronchitis.) 
What is the role of inhaled steroids in COPD? Inhaled steroids are recommended for symptomatic patients with moderate to severe COAD and for patients with frequent  exacerbations but not for patients with mild COAD (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1960-1). Budenoside, fluticasone and triamcinolone  were studied in long-term clinical trials (N Engl J Med 1999; 340: 1948-53; Lancet 1999; 353: 1819-23; BMJ 2000: 320: 1297-303)  and all were similar except that triamcinolone has deleterious effects on bone density (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1902-9). What are the organisms commonly associated with exacerbations of COAD? Haemophilus infiuenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae are the commonest organisms identified in the sputum during  exacerbations of COAD, accounting for 43% and 25% respectively of positive cultures in one study. Moraxella (previously 
Branhamella) catarrhalis is also frequently isolated from sputum during exacer-bations. Less commonly, Chlamydia pneumoniae or  Pseudomonas aeruginosa have been associated with some exacerbations. What clinical features would suggest that this patient is suitable for long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy? °       COAD: forced expiratory volume in I second (FEV1) less than 1.5 litres; forced vital capacity (FVC) less than 2 litres; stable  
chronic respiratory failure (Pao2 <7.3 kPa, that is, 55 mmHg) in patients who have (1) had peripheral oedema or (2) not  necessarily had hypercapnia or oedema (N Engl J Med 1995; 333:710-14); carboxyhaemoglobin of less than 3% (i.e. patients  who have stopped smoking). 
·       Terminally ill patients of whatever cause with severe hypoxia (Pao2 <7.3 kPa). How can the sensation of breathlessness be reduced? By the use of either promethazine or dihydrocodeine. How would you treat acute respiratory failure? If Pao2 is less than 8 kPa, administer 24% oxygen. There is no need for oxygen when Pao2 is greater than 8 kPa. Monitor blood  gases after 30 minutes. If Pa02 is rising (by I kPa), monitor blood gases hourly. If Pao2 continues to rise, administer doxapram. If, in  spite of this, the patient continues to deteriorate, artificial ventilation may be called for. What do you know about non-invasive ventilation? Non-invasive ventilation is an alternative approach to endotracheal intubation to treat hypercapnic ventilatory failure which occurs in  COAD. It thus reduces the complications of endotracheal intubation such as infection and injury to the trachea. Non-invasive  ventilation is pressure-support ventilation delivered with a face mask and a piece of white foam placed in the face mask to reduce  the amount of internal dead space. In a recent randomized trial, non-invasive ventilation was shown to reduce the need for  endotracheal intubation, length of hospital stay and in-hospital mortality rate in selected patients with acute exacerbations of COAD  (N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 817-22). What do you know about the molecular genetics of COAD? ott-antitrypsin  deficiency ·       It was first described in Sweden. The patient is deficient in alpha-antitrypsin, with activity approximately 15% that of the normal  
value; concentrations of 40% or more are required for health. The patient is homozygous for the protease inhibitor (Pi) ZZ gene.  Other genetic combinations and their percentage normal activity are PiMS (80%), PiMZ (60%), PiSS (60%), PiSZ (40%). Six  per cent of the population is heterozygous for S(PiMS) and 4% for Z(PiMZ), making an overall frequency of 1 in 10 for the  carriage of the defective gene. Liver transplantation results in conversion to the genotype of the donor. 
·       In the lung, alpha1-antitrypsin inhibits the excessive actions of neutrophil and macro-phage elastase, which cigarette smoke  
promotes. When the lung is heavily exposed to cigarette smoke, the protective effect of alpha 1-antitrypsin may be  over-whelmed by the amount of elastase released or hy a direct oxidative action of cigarette smoke on the alpha 1 -antitrypsin  molecule. The emphysema is panacinar and is seen in the lower lobes of the lungs. Smoking increases the severity and 
decreases the age of onset of emphysema. Liver disease is a much less common complication. Human alpha 1 -antltrypsm  prepared from pooled plasma from normal donors is recommended for patients over 18 years with serum levels below 11 gmol/l and  abnormal lung function. ·       The siblings of an index case should be screened for this disorder. Their identifi-cation should be followed by counselling to  
avoid smoking and occupations with atmospheric pollution. Children of homozygotes will inherit at least one Z gene and hence  will be heterozygotes. They should avoid pairing with another heterozygote if they wish to avoid the risk of producing an  affected homozygote. 
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha ) COAD is 10 times more common in Taiwanese with a polymorphism in the promoter region of the gene for TNF-alpha resulting in  increased production of TNF-alpha (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997; 156:136-9). However, the same polymorphism in the UK  population is not associated with increased risk of COAD (Eur Respir J 2000; 15: 2814). Microsomal epoxide hydrolase A polymorphism variant of microsomal epoxide hydrolase, an enzyme involved in the metabolism of epoxides that may be generated  in tobacco smoke, has been associated with a quintupling of the risk of COAD (Lancet1997; 350: 663). What is the role of surgery in COAD? ·       Bullectomy may improve gas exchange and airflow, and reduce dyspnoea in selected patients with bu]lae larger than one third  
of the hemithorax and accom-panying lung compression. 
·       Lung-volume reduction surgery (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 239-45) results in functional improvements including increased  
FEV1, reduced total lung capacity, improved function of respiratory muscles, improved exercise capacity and improved quality  of life (J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1999; 112: 1319-29; Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999; 160: 2018-27). These benefits persist  for at least a year but the long-term benefits are not known and are currently being investigated by the National Emphysema  Treatment Trial Group (Chest 1999; 116: 1750-61). 
·       Single lung transplantation: this has been successful for at least 34 years in patients with COAD. The criteria for selecting  
patients for transplantation have not been established. It does not improve survival but improves quality of life (J Thorac  Cardiovasc Surg 1991; 101: 623-32). 
What are the general indications for lung transplantation? The general indication is end-stage lung disease without alternative forms of therapy. Patients should be below 60 years of age and  should have a life expectancy of less than 12 or 18 months; they should not have an underlying cancer or other serious systemic  illness. The most common lung diseases are pulmonary fibrosis, emphysema (particularly alpha 1 -antitrypsin deficiency),  bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and primary pulmonary hypertension. What is the role of nutrition in COAD? Undernutrition is associated with reduced respiratory muscle function and an increased mortality rate. A high dietary intake of n-3  
fatty acids may protect cigarette smokers against COAD. 
Mention some newer  treatments for COAD. ·       Antagonists of inflammatory mediators: 5-1ipoxygenase inhibitors, leukotriene B4 antagonists, interleukin-8 antagonists, tumour  
necrosis factor inhibitors and antioxidants. 
·       Protease inhibitors: neutrophil elastase inhibitors, cathepsin inhibitors, non-selective matrix metalloprotease inhibitors, elafin,  
secretory leukoprotease inhibitor, alpha 1-antitrypsin. 
·       New anti-inflammatory agents: phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors, nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitors, adhesion molecule inhibitors  
and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors (N Engl J Med 2000; 343:19601 ). 
Peter Howard, contemporary chest physician, Sheffield; his chief interest is long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy. Peter Barnes, contemporary physician and professor, National Heart and Lung Institute London 
Listen to this patient's chest.SALIENT FEATURESHistory · Cough with copious purulent sputum, recurrent haemoptysis. · Intermittent fever and night sweats. · History of recurrent chest infections. · Weight loss.Examination·       Copious purulent expectoration (remember to check the sputum cup in a chest case). ·       Finger clubbing. ·       Bilateral coarse, late, inspiratory crackles. Proceed as follows: · Comment on kyphoscoliosis if present. ·       Tell the examiner that you would like to know whether the bronchiectasis is of long standing; if so, you would like to examine  
the abdomen for splenomegaly (amyloidosis). 
In addition there may be signs of collapse, fibrosis or pneumonia. 
cyanosed.QUESTIONSWhat do you understand by the term 'bronchiectasis'? It is a chronic necrotizing infection of the bronchi and bronchioles leading to abnormal, permanent dilatation of the airways. Mention the causes of bronchiectasis. · Postpneumonic, measles, pertussis, tuberculosis (TB). · Mechanical bronchial obstruction, as in TB, carcinoma, nodal compression. · Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. · T-Globulin deficiency congenital, acquired. · Immotile cilia syndrome (Kartagener's syndrome). · Cystic fibrosis. · Neuropathic disorders (namely Riley-Day syndrome, Chagas' disease). · Idiopathic. What investigations would you perform in such a patient? FBC, sputum culture, CXR, bronchography, CT scan of the chest. 
High-resolution CT performed at the end of expiration suggests that small airways disease may be an early feature of  bronchiectasis, which leads to more progressive injury and bronchiolar distortion. Larger studies with long-term follow-up are  required to confirm this. Conventional CT has a sensitivity of 60-80% for detecting bronchiectasis, whereas high-resolution CT has a  sensitivity of more than 90%, using bronchography as the 'gold standard'. What is the difference between standard and high-resolution CT? In standard CT the resolution is 10 mm thick whereas with high-resolution CT the slices are 1-2 mm thick and high spatial resolution  algorithms are used to recon-struct images (Radiology 1994; 193:369 74). What do you know about spiral CT? This is a rapidly evolving technique to image the chest which has the advantage of truly contiguous sections; consequently  completely seamless reconstructions are possible. This may allow virtual-reality bronchoscopy imaging (Am J Roentgenol 1994;  162: 561-7). What are the complications of bronchiectasis? · Pneumonia, pleurisy, pleural effusion, pneumothorax. · Sinusitis. · Haemoptysis. · Brain abscess. · Amyloidosis. 
What are the major respiratory pathogens in bronchiectasis? Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus infiuenzae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa. How would you treat such patients? · Postural drainage. · Antibiotics. · Bronchodilators. · Surgery in selected cases. What abnormalities may be associated with bronchiectasis? · Congenital absence of bronchial cartilage (Williams-Campbell syndrome). · Tracheobronchomegaly (Mounier-Kuhn syndrome). ·       Obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinopulmonary infection (Young's syndrome), said to be due to mercury intoxication. It  
was first described from the north of England by Young in 1970. 
·       Congenital kyphoscoliosis. ·       Situs inversus and paranasal sinusitis (Kartagener's syndrome). ·       Unilateral absence of pulmonary artery. What is the indication for surgery in bronchiectasis? Bronchiectasis localized to a single lobe or segment without clinical, broncho-graphic or CT evidence of bronchiectasis or bronchitis  affecting other parts of the lung. What are the common sites for localized disease? Left lower lobe and lingula. What do you understand by the term 'bronchiectasis sicca'? Bronchiectasis or 'dry' bronchiectasis is that which presents with recurrent dry cough associated with intermittent episodes (months  or years apart) of haemoptysis. The haemoptysis can be life threatening as bleeding is from bronchial vessels with systemic  pressures. There is usually a past history of granulomatous infection, particularly tuberculosis. The upper lobes are often primarily  affected, allowing good drainage. What do you know about bronchiectasis in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis? The bronchial dilatation occurs in more proximal bronchi as a result of type Ill immune complex reactions. What do you know about Reid's classification of bronchiectasis? In 1950, Reid correlated pathological changes with bronchography and described three different appearances. All three types can be  present in the same patient. ·       Cylindrical bronchiectasis: refers to bronchi that are uniformly dilated and do not taper, but rather end abruptly. This is due to  
plugging of smaller bronchi by thick mucus and casts. The bronchi are dilated to greater than 2 mm but can be so large as to  admit a finger. 
·       Varicose bronchiectasis: refers to dilated bronchi with irregular bulging contours similar to a varicose vein. They do not taper  
and terminations are bulbous. Bronchial subdivisions are reduced. 
·       Cystic or saccular bronchiectasis: the most severe form, characterized by sharply reduced bronchial subdivisions and dilated  
bronchi ending in cystic pus-filled cavities. 
kaennec was the first to describe bronchiectasis in 1819. M. Kartagener (b. 1897), a Swiss physician. C.M. Riley and R.L. Day, both US paediatricians. Riley-Day syndrome consists of dysautonomia and lack of coordination in  swallowing. C.J.R. Chagas (1879-1934), a Brazilian physician. 
· Symptoms of COAD (see pp 261 6). · Easy fatiguability, shortness of breath on exertion, weakness. · Leg oedema, and right upper quadrant pain. Examination ·       Patient is short of breath at rest and is centrally cyanosed. ·       Tar staining of the fingers. ·       JVP is raised: both 'a' and 'v' waves are seen, 'v' waves being prominent if there is associated tricuspid regurgitation. ·       On examination of the chest there is bilateral wheeze and other signs of chronic bronchitis (see pp 261-6). Proceed as follows: · Examine the cardiovascular system for signs of pulmonary hypertension: 
-Left parasternal heave (often absent when the chest is barrel shaped). -Right ventricular gallop rhythm. -Loud P2 and a loud ejection click. Pansystolic murmur of tricuspid regurgitation. -Early diastolic Graham Steell murmur in the pulmonary area. 
· Look for signs of: 
- Hepatomegaly. - Pedal oedema. 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has chronic cot pulmonale (lesion) due to long-standing COAD (aetiology) and is in congestive cardiac failure (functional  status). QUESTIONS What do you understand by the term 'cor pulmonale'? Cor pulmonale is right ventricular enlargement due to the increase in afterload that occurs in diseases of the lung, chest wall or  pulmonary circulation. Mention a few causes of cor pulmonale. Respiratory disorders': · Obstructive: - COAD. -Chronic persistent asthma. · Restrictive: -Intrinsic  - interstitial fibrosis, lung resection. - Extrinsic - obesity, muscle weakness, kyphoscoliosis, high altitude. Pulmonary vascular disorders: · Puhnonary emboli. · Vasculitis of the small pulmonary arteries. · Adult respiratory distress syndrome. · Primary pulmonary hypertension. ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS How would you manage a patient with cor pulmonale? 
· Treat the underlying cause. ·       Treat respiratory failure. If Pao, is less than 8 kPa, administer 24% oxygen. There is no need for oxygen if Pa(), is more than 8  
kPa. Monitor blood gases after 30 minutes. If PCO2, is rising (by I kPa), monitor blood gases hourly. If Pc(): continues to rise,  administer doxapram. If, in spite of this, the deterioration continues, the patient may merit artificial ventilation. 
·       Treat cardiac failure with furosemide (frusemide). ·       Consider venesection if the haematocrit is more than 55% (Lancet 1989; ii: 20 1 ). What is the prognosis in cor pulmonale? Approximately 50% of patients succumb within 5 years. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's chest. SALIENT FEATURES History · Abrupt onset of symptoms. · Cough with purulent sputum. · Fever with sweating or rigors. · Pleuritic chest pain (pp 251,256). · Shortness of breath. · Haemoptysis. · Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea (consider Legionella). · Mental status changes (esp. elderly). Examination · Purulent sputum (if bacterial in aetiology). · Tachypnoea. · Reduced movement of the affected side. · Trachea central. · Impaired percussion note. · Bronchial breath sounds. · Crackles. DIAGNOSIS This patient has left lower lobe consolidation with purulent sputum (lesion) indicating a bacterial pneumonia (aetiology). 
Read N Engl J Med 1995; 333:1618 24; Br J Hasp Med 1993; 49: 346-50. 
QUESTIONS What is the aetiology? · Bacterial pneumonia. · Bronchogenic carcinoma. · Pulmonary infarct. How would you investigate suspected bacterial pneumonia ? · Full blood count, serum urea, electrolytes and liver function tests. · Sputum and blood cultures. · Arterial blood gases. · CXR. 
·       Test for Legionella (culture, direct fluorescent-antibody test, or urinary antigen assay), mycoplasma immunoglobulin M. ·       Consider serological testing for human immunodeficiency virus (for patients 15-54 years old, particularly when there is  
lymphopenia or a low CD4 cell count). 
· Carcinoma of the lung. · Aspiration of a foreign body. · Inappropriate antibiotic. · Sequestration (rare; suspect if left lower lobe is involved). 
What do you know about atypical pneumonias? Typical pneumonia is caused by pneumococcus (Streptococcus pneumoniae), whereas atypical pneumonia is that not due to  pneumococcus; the latter may be caused by Mycoplasma, Legionel/a, Chlamydia, Coxiella, etc. The clinical picture in atypical  pneumonia is dominated by constitutional symptoms, such as fever and headache, rather than respiratory symptoms. What do you know about mycoplasma pneumonia? Mycoplasma pneumoniae is an important cause of atypical pneumonia, it is an important community-acquired pneumonia and  epidemics are seen every 4 years or so. Its incubation is 2-3 weeks and it is usually seen in children and young adults. Reinfection  can occur in older patients with detectable M. pneumoniae antibody. Like all other pneumonias, mycoplasma pneumonia is common  in winter months. What are the extrapulmonary manifestations of mycoplasma pneumonia? · Arthralgia and arthritis. · Autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. · Neurological manifestations involving both central and peripheral nervous systems. · Pericarditis, myocarditis. · Hepatitis, glomerulonephritis. · Non-specific rash, erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. · Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). What are the complications of pneumonia? · Septicaemia. · Lung abscess. · Empyema. · Adult respiratory distress syndrome. · Multiorgan failure, renal failure. · Haemolytic syndrome. · Death. Which antibiotics would you use in a patient with community-acquired pneumonia where the pathogen is not known? The British Thoracic Society recommends that empirical therapy 'should always cover' Strep. pneumoniae. The preferred regimen is  amoxicillin or penicillin; when 
Legionella or M. pneumoniae is specifically suspected, erythromycin should be gwen, and antibiotics directed against  Staphylococcus aureus should be considered during epidemics of influenza. What are the poor prognostic factors in patients with community-acquired pneumonia ?  · Age over 65 years. ·       Coexisting conditions such as cardiac failure, renal failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignancy. ·       Clinical features: respiratory rate >30 per min, hypotension (systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg or diastolic pressure <60  
mmHg), temperature >38.3°C, impaired mental status (stupor, lethargy, disorientation or coma), extrapulmonary infection (e.g.  septic arthritis, meningitis). 
·       Investigations: haematocrit <30%, white cell count <4000 or >30 000 per mm3, azotaemia, arterial blood gas <60 mmHg while  
breathing room air, chest radio-graph showing multiple lobe involvement, rapid spread or pleural effusion. 
·       Microbial pathogens: Staph. aureus, Legionella, Strep. pneumoniae. What do you know about pulmonary eosinophilic disorders? Crofton et al described five classes of pulmonary eosinophilic disorder (Thorax 1952; 7: 1-35): ·       L6ffler's syndrome: characterized by transient pulmonary infiltrates and peri-pheral eosinophilia. It is associated with parasitic  
infections, drug allergies and exposure to inorganic chemicals such as nickel carbonyl. The course is benign and respiratory  failure almost unknown. 
·       Eosinophilia in asthmatics: the most common cause is allergic broncho-pulmonary aspergillosis. This condition is benign but  
chronic. 
·       Tropical eosinophilia which is secondary to filarial infection (Wuchereria bancrofti or W. malayi Brug). ·       Churg Strauss syndrome. Diagnosis requires four of the following features: asthma; eosinophilia greater than 10%;  
mononeuropathy or polyneuropathy; paranasal sinus abnormality; non-fixed pulmonary infiltrates visible on chest radiographs;  blood vessels with extravascular eosinophils found on biopsy. 
·       Chronic eosinophilic pneumonia: chronic debilitating illness characterized by malaise, fever, weight loss and dyspnoea. The  
chest radiograph shows a peri-pheral alveolar filling infiltrate predominantly in the upper lobes (the 'photo-graphic negative' of  pulmonary oedema). 
What do you know about broncbopulmonary sequestration? It is an uncommon congenital lesion in which a portion of non-functioning lung tissue is detached from the normal lung and supplied  by an anomalous systemic artery, usually arising from the aorta or one of its branches. The tissue has no communication with the  bronchopulmonary tree. Two types of sequestration have been described: extralobar and intralobar. An extralobar sequestration has  its own pleural lining, which separates it from the remaining lung tissue, and the intralobar type shares its pleura with the adjacent  normal lung. Patients usually present in childhood with cough and recurrent pneumonia, and occasionally present with haemoptysis. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's chest. SALIENT FEATURES History · Symptoms related to: -Primary tumour (cough, dyspnoea, haemoptysis, post-obstructive pneumonia). -Mediastinal spread (hoarseness with left-sided lesions due to recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy; obstruction of the superior vena cava  
with right-sided tumours or associated lymphadenopathy; elevation of the hemidiaphragm as result of phrenic nerve paralysis;  dysphagia from oesophageal obstruction and pericardial tamponade). 
-       Metastases (sites include liver, brain, pleural cavity, bone, adrenal glands, contra-lateral lung and skin). (Initial presentation  
with symptoms from a metastatic focus is particularly common with adenocarcinoma.) -Paraneoplastic syndrome (pain in arms or legs due to hypertrophic osteo-arthropathy, symptoms of hypercalcaemia due to  
squamous cell carcinoma, neurological syndromes). 
-Systemic effects (anorexia, weight loss, weakness and profound fatigue). 
· History of smoking. Examination · Patient 1 has clubbing and tar staining of the fingers. 
-Dull percussion note at the apex with absent breath sounds. -Look for Homer's syndrome and wasting of the small muscles of the hand. 
·       Patient 2 has signs of pleural effusion on one side. ·       Patient 3 shows signs of unilateral collapse or consolidation of the upper lobe on one side. Note. If you suspect bronchogenic carcinoma, always look for clubbing, tar staining, cervical lymph nodes and radiation marks, and  comment on cachexia. DIAGNOSIS This patient with marked clubbing and large pleural effusion (lesion) probably has bronchogenic carcinoma (aetiology) and is very  short of breath due to the large 
Read BMJ 1992; 304: 1298; BMJ 1990; 301: 1287. 
·       Cough (in 80% of cases), haemoptysis (70%) and dyspnoea (60%); loss of weight, anorexia. ·       Skeletal manifestations: clubbing (in 30% of cases). ·       Local pressure effects: recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, superior vena caval obstruction, Homer's syndrome. ·       Endocrine manifestations: 12% of tumours - in particular small cell tumours -present with syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic  
hormone (SIADH), hyper-calcaemia, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion, gynaecomastia. SIADH does not usually  cause symptoms. When Cushing's syndrome occurs the manifestations are primarily metabolic (hypokalaemic alkalosis). 
·       Neurological manifestations: Eaton-Lambert syndrome, cerebellar degeneration, polyneuropathy, dementia, proximal  
myopathy, encephalomyelitis, subacute sensory neuropathy, limbic encephalitis, opsoclonus and myoclonus. 
·       Cardiovascular: thrombophlebitis migrans, atrial fibrillation, pericarditis, non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis. ·       Cutaneous manifestations: dermatomyositis, acanthosis nigricans, herpes zoster. ·       Anaemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Hypercoagulopathy in the form of  
venous thromboembolism is seen, especially with adenocarcinoma. 
·       Membranous glomerulonephritis. How would you investigate this patient? ·       Sputum cytology: high yield for endobronchial tumours such as squamous cell and small cell carcinoma but poor yield for  
adenocarcinoma. 
·       CXR. ·       Pleural fluid cytology. ·       Bronchoscopy gives a high yield in excess of 90%, particularly when the tumour is viewed endobronchially. For tumours that  
are not visualized , the yield for washing and brushing is about 75% in central lesions and 55% in peripheral lesions. The yield  in small-cell and squamous cell carcinomas is higher than in adenocarcinomas. 
·       CT scan of the chest and upper abdomen (to image the liver and adrenals). ·       Bone scan for metastases (helpful in staging). ·       PET scanning is highly sensitive and specific for mediastinal staging. ·       Pulmonary function tests (most surgeons aim for a FEV1 of about I litre after planned resection); a DLCO below 60% predicted  
is associated with a mortality rate as high as 25% due to respiratory complications. 
The main aim of staging is to identity candidates for surgical resection, since this approach offers the highest potential cure for lung  cancer. The staging assessment covers three major issues: distant metastases, the state of the chest and media-stinum, and the  condition of the patient. 
What is the role of surgery in  lung carcinoma? Surgery is beneficial in peripheral non-small cell carcinoma. Its role is limited in small cell carcinoma, as over 90% have  metastasized by the time of diagnosis. Which tumours respond well to chemotherapy? Small cell carcinoma: cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, cisplatin, etoposide and vincristine are some of the drugs used. The  combination of etoposide and cisplatin appears to have the best therapeutic index of any regimen. A meta-analysis of the role of  chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancers suggested that the benefits are small. What are the drugs used in non-small cell lung cancer? · Old agents: cisplatin, carboplatin, etoposide, vinblastine, vindesine. · Newer agents: docetaxel, paclitaxel, irinotecan, vinorelbine, gemcitabine. What are the indications for radiotherapy? · Pain - either local or metastatic. · Breathlessness due to bronchial obstruction. · Dysphagia. · Haemoptysis. · Superior venal caval obstruction. · Pancoast's tumour. · Before and after operation in selected patients. What are the contraindications for surgery? · Metastatic carcinoma. · FEVt less than 1.5 litres. · Transfer factor less than 50%. · Severe pulmonary hypertension. · Uncontrolled major cardiac arrhythmias. · Carbon dioxide retention. · Myocardial infarction in the past 3 months. Is the progression of cancer associated with genetic change? Yes: it is accompanied by a mutation in the p53 gene and loss of a portion of' the short arm of chromosome 3 in small cell cancer;  the functional significance of this is not clear.Robert Souhami, Professor of Clinical Oncology, University College and Middlesex School of Medicine, London. 
·       Cough with purulent and viscous expectoration. ·       Diabetes mellitus. ·       Gastrointestinal symptoms (steatorrhoea, failure to thrive in childhood, rectal prolapse, meconium ileus or distal intestinal  
obstruction). 
·       Heat stroke, salt depletion. ·       Sterility in men and decreased fertility in women. Examination ·       Sputum is purulent. ·       Patient is short of breath. 
·       Central cyanosis. ·       Finger clubbing. ·       Bilateral coarse crackles. Proceed  as follows: Tell the examiner that you would like to check the following levels: ·       Urine sugar. ·       Faecal fat. ·       Sweat sodium.DIAGNOSISThis patient has bilateral coarse crackles, asthenia and foul fatty stool (lesion) due to cystic fibrosis (aetiology) and requires  continuous oxygen indicating respiratory failure (functional status).QUESTIONSWhat are the chances of this male patient having a child? Males are sterile owing to the failure of development of the vas deferens and epididymis. What are the clinical manifestations of this condition? Neonates Recurrent chest infections, failure to thrive, meconium ileus and rectal prolapse. 
In  childhood and young  adults ·       Respiratory: infection, bronchiectasis, pneumothorax, haemoptysis, nasal polyps, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis,  
deterioration during and after pregnancy. 
·       Cardiovascular: cur pulmonale. ·       Gastrointestinal: rectal prolapse, distal ileal obstruction (meconium ileus equivalent), cirrhosis, gallstones, intussusception. ·       Miscellaneous: male infertility, diabetes mellitus, hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. How would you treat steatorrhoea? · Low-fat diet. · Pancreatic supplements. · H2-receptor antagonist. How would you treat chest complications? · Postural drainage. · Antibiotics. · Bronchodilators. ·  Heart-lung transplantantion. What is the role of physiotherapy? Physiotherapy has been shown to be useful, but there remains considerable debate regarding the effectiveness of different  techniques including traditional postural drainage and percussion, forced expiratory technique, positive expiratory pressure masks,  autodrainage and flutter valves.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat is the  inheritance in  cystic fibrosis? Autosomal recessive. On the long arm of chromosome 7 resides the gene coding for a 1480-amino-acid protein a cyclic  AMP-regulated chloride channel, now called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductor regulator (CFTR). The CFTR gene is  carried by I in 20 Caucasians and its incidence is about 1 in 2000 live births. There is a mutation on the long arm of chromosome 7  in 70% of patients. There is a deletion of the codon for phenylalanine at position 508 (A508; N Engl J Med 1990; 323:1517). This  detect leads to a failure of the chloride channel to open in response to cyclic AMP (Science 1992; 256: 774-9: N Engl d Med 1991;  325: 575-7). More than 175 other types of lesion in the cystic fibrosis gene are responsible for the disease in the remaining 30% of  patients. How is this condition diagnosed in infancy? lmmunoreactive trypsin assay in dried blood. What do you know about sweat testing? A sweat sodimn concentration over 60 mmol/l is indicative of cystic fibrosis. It identifies over 75% by the age of 2 years and about  95% by the age of 12 years. It is more difficult to interpret in older children and adults. What is the basic defect in the airways of these patients? The opening of chloride channels at the luminal surface of the airway epithelial cells in normal individuals allows the passive  transport of chloride along an electro-chemical gradient from the cytoplasm to the lumen. In patients with cystic fibrosis 
there is a defect in these channels which prevents the normal secretion of chloride into the airway lumen. Simultaneously, there is a  
three-fold increase in the reabsorp-tion of sodium from the airway lumen into the cytoplasm of the epithelial cell. As the movement of  water into airway secretions follows the movement of salt, it is believed that a decreased secretion of chloride into the airway lumen  and the increased reabsorption of sodium from the airway lumen combine to reduce water content and increase the viscosity and  tenacity of the airway secretions.If the patient has persistent purulent cough, which organisms are usually  responsible?Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Burkholderia cepacia and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The latter is associated with  poor prognosis as this organism is almost impossible to eradicate. Which antibiotics are usually used to treat pseudomonal infections?  Intravenous or aerosol carbenicillin and gentamicin in  combination. What is the risk of cancer in patients with cystic fibrosis? The overall risk of cancer is similar to that of the general population, but there is an increased risk of digestive tract cancers (N Engl  J Med 1995; 332: 494-9). Persistent or unexplained gastrointestinal symptoms in these patients ought to be investigated carefully. What is the lifespan in such patients? The median age of survival is currently in the early 30s. It is estimated that at least half of those with cystic fibrosis will be adults by  the year 2000. What is the cause of death in cystic fibrosis? Death occurs from pulmonary complications, such as pneumonia, pneumothorax or haemoptysis, or as a result of terminal chronic  respiratory failure. What parameters can predict death in cystic fibrosis? Prediction of death within 2 years can be made for 50% of the patients whose forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) is less  than 30%. Thus the necessity for referral for transplantation can be anticipated about 1 year in advance of death (N Engl J Med  1992; 326: l 187-91). How would you manage a patient who has been accepted for transplantation ? The aim is to sustain life by aggressive therapy with nocturnal oxygen, continuous intravenous antibiotics, enteral feeding,  respiratory stimulants and nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (Eur Respir J 1991; 4: 524-7). If this patient requires lung transplantation, which type of transplantation is the treatment of choice? Bilateral lung transplantation is necessary for patients with chronic bronchial infection such as cystic fibrosis (or bronchiectasis) to  avoid contamination of the donor lung by spill-over of infected material from the recipient's remaining lung (J Thorac Cardiovasc  Surg 1992; 103: 287-94). What are the complications of lung transplantation? Early post-transplantation lung oedema, infection and rejection (including obliterative bronchiolitis). 
none;text-autospace:none;direction:ltr;unicode-bidi:embed'>What are the indications for combined  heart-lung transplantation?  Combined heart-lung transplantation has relatively few indications, the primary one being congenital  
heart disease with Eisenmenger syndrome. What new methods of treatment are available? ·        High-dose ibuprofen in patients with mild disease (FEVi of at least 60% of the predicted value), taken consistently for 4 years,  
significantly slows the progression of lung disease without serious adverse effects (N Engl J Med 1995; 332: 848-54). 
·       Aerosolized recombinant human DNAse, which is capable of degrading DNA in the bronchial secretion, has been shown to  
improve forced expiratory flow rates when given by aerosol (N Engl J Med 1994; 331: 637-42). 
·       Gene therapy: the gene is transferred in a 'carder' (either in a cationic lipid envelope known as a liposome (Nat Med1995; 1:  
39-46), or in an adenovirus). On trans-ferdng the gene for cystic fibrosis to the nasal epithelium using a cationic liposome, the  deficit was partly restored without provoking a local inflammatory response. 
·       Improvement of the hydration of secretion: - By blocking the reabsorption of sodium from the airway lumen with amiloride. -By stimulating the secretion of chloride with  triphosphate nucleotides (ATP or 
uridine triphosphate) through nucleotide receptors by a pathway independent of cylic AMP metabolism (N Engl J Med 1991;  322:1189-94). 
· Immunization to various components of Pseudomonas. What advice would you give a patient with cystic fibrosis who wishes to become pregnant? ·       The couple will be offered genetic counselling and the man will be offered testing to determine his genetic status. If he is a  
carrier, chorionic villous sampling will be considered as the risk of the couple conceiving an infant with cystic fibrosis is I in 2  and they may wish to consider selective termination in the first trimester. The hazards of general anaesthesia (as lung function  is impaired) for termination of pregnancy will be brought to their attention. Termination of pregnancy either with spinal  anaesthesia or medications is an alternative. 
·       Women with severe disease will be informed that they may be unable to complete pregnancy and that their premature demise  
may leave a motherless child. 
·       In women with an FEVj less than 60% of the predicted value there is an increased risk of premature delivery, an increased rate  
of caesarean section, some loss of lung function and risk of respiratory complications, and early death of the mother (BMJ  1995; 311: 822-3). 
·       Pregnancy after heart-lung transplantation offers better health and increased longevity in the mother, but the risk of organ  
rejection and exposure of the fetus to potentially teratogenic immunosuppressants means that pregnancy should not be  attempted by women with transplants. 
What is the 'forme fruste' of cystic fibrosis? Increasingly, with the availability of neonatal screening with immunoreactive trypsin and thorough diagnosis by genetic studies,  milder forms of disease have been recognized without the increase in sweat sodium. It is predicted that a con-siderable number of  patients will present with a pattern of disease in adult life that has not been recognized in the past as being due to cystic fibrosis. 
The first successful pregnancy in a woman with cystic fibrosis was reported in 1960. 
Examine the respiratory system from the back.SALIENT FEATURESHistory ·       Progressive exertional dyspnoea (90%). ·       Chronic cough (74%). ·       ArthralgiaJarthritis (19%). ·       Obtain a drug history (amiodarone, nitrofurantoin and busulfan). Examination ·       Clubbing. ·       Central cyanosis. ·       Bilateral, basal, fine, end-inspiratory crackles which disappear or become quieter on leaning forwards. Furthermore, the  
crackles do not disappear on coughing (unlike those of pulmonary oedema). The crackles have been called 'Velcro' or  'Cellophane' crackles. 
·       Tachypnoea (in advanced cases). Proceed as follows: · Examine the following: -Hands (for rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis). -Face (for typical rash of SLE, heliotropic rash of dermatomyositis, typical 
facies of systemic sclerosis, lupus pernio of sarcoid). 
-Mouth (for aphthous ulcers of Crohn's disease, dry mouth of Sj6gren's 
syndrome). 
·       Look for signs of pulmonary hypertension: 'a' wave in the JVP, left parasternal heave and P2.DIAGNOSISThis patient has bilateral, basal, fine, end-inspiratory crackles (lesion) due to fibrosing alveolitis (aetiology) and is tachypnoeic at rest  (functional status). 
· Bronchogenic carcinoma (crackles are localized). · Bronchiectasis (coarse crackles). · Asbestosis (history of exposure to asbestos).ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSMention possible aetiological factors. These include metal dust (steel, brass, lead); wood dust (pine); wood smoke and smoking. 
Mention other conditions which have similar pulmonary changes. ·       Rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, dermatomyositis, chronic active hepatitis, ulcerative colitis, systemic sclerosis. ·       Pneumoconiosis. ·       Granulomatous disease: sarcoid, TB. ·       Chronic pulmonary oedema. ·       Radiotherapy. ·       Lymphangitis carcinomatosa. ·       Extrinsic allergic alveolitis: farmer's lung, bird fancier's lung. What is the pathology in fibrosing alveolitis? Fibrosing alveolitis is characterized by the presence of connective tissue matrix proteins within the acinar regions of the lung in  association with a variable cellular infiltrate within the alveoli and in the interstitium. What are the types of interstitial pneumonitis? Liebow and Carrington (Liebow AA, Carrington CB 1969 The interstitial pneumonias. In: Simon M, Potchen EJ, LeMay M (eds)  Frontiers of Pulmonary Radiology. Grune &Stratton, New York, pp 102-141) initially described five subgroups, depending on  histology, to which there has recently been an addition: ·       Classical (usual) interstitial pneumonia (UIP), characterized by thickening of the alveolar interstitium by fibrous tissue and  
mononuclear cells; characteristically varying in severity from one focus to another. The mean survival is 2.8-5.6 years. Twelve  per cent respond to steroids and spontaneous improvement does not occur. 
·       Desquamative interstitial pneumonia (DIP) where there is a marked accumulation of macrophages in the alveolar airspaces  
associated with a relatively mild but uniform thickening of the interstitial space caused by mononuclear inflammatory cells. The  mean survival is 12.4-14 years. The response to steroids is 62% and spontaneous improvement is 22%. 
·       Non-specific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP). The survival is 14 years and thera-peutic response is similar to DIP. ·       A diffuse lesion similar to UIP but with superimposed bronchiolitis obliterans. ·       Lymphoid interstitial pneumonia (LIP) in which there is marked infiltration of interstitium by lymphocytes that may be  
indistinguishable from lymphoma. 
·        Giant-cell interstitial pneumonia consisting of a mononuclear cell infiltrate in the interstitium associated with large numbers of  
multinucleated giant cells. 
How would you investigate this patient? ·       CXR typically shows bilateral basal reticulonodular shadows which advance upwards as the disease progresses. In advanced  
cases there is marked destruction of the parenchyma causing 'honeycombing' (due to groups of closely set ring shadows), and  nodular shadows are not conspicuous. The mediastinum may appear broad as a result of a decrease in lung volume. 
·       Blood gases: arterial desaturation worsens while upright and improves on recum- bency. There is arterial hypoxaemia and hypocapnia. ·       Pulmonary function tests: in the early stages lung volumes may be normal, but there is arterial desaturation following exercise.  
Typically there is a restrictive defect with reduction of both the gas transfer factor and gas transfer coefficient. 
·       High ESR; raised immunoglobulins; raised antinuclear factor; rheumatoid factor is positive. ·       Bronchial lavage: a large number of lymphocytes indicates a good response to steroids and a good prognosis. A large number  
of neutrophils and eosinophils indi-cates a poor prognosis (5-year survival rate of 60% for steroid responders versus 25% for  non-responders). The patients are more likely to respond to cyclophos-phamide if the number of neutrophils is increased (Am  Rev Respir Dis 1987; 135: 26). 
·       Lung biopsy: in early stages there is mononuclear cell infiltration in the alveolar walls, progressing to interstitial fibrosis - known  
as usual interstitial pneumonitis (UIP); in later stages fibrotic contraction of the lung, honeycombing, bronchial dilatation and  cysts are seen. DIP - alveolar macrophages with little mononuclear infiltration or fibrosis - has a better prognosis than UIP as it  responds to steroids. 
·       MRI is useful in determining disease activity without ionizing radiation but it is an expensive method. ·        High-resolution CT (HRCT) is useful to assess the pattern and extent of disease. Patients with a predominantly ground-glass  
appearance are treated whereas those with a predominantly reticular appearance undergo technetium diethylenetriamine  penta-acetate scanning (DPTA) to assess the probability of deterioration. HRCT may avoid the need for biopsy, especially if  there is predominantly reticular shadowing. It acts as a guide for ideal biopsy site. 
·       Technetium-99m diethylenetriamine penta-acetate (DPTA) scanning in non-smokers is of value in identifying which patients are  
more likely to deteriorate. Therapy can be postponed when there is slow clearance, whereas those with fast clearance should  receive treatment (Eur Respir J 1993; 6: 797-802). 
Mention prognostic factors. Short duration of disease, young age of patient at onset, female, predominantly ground-glass shadowing on CXR and presence of  little fibrosis on lung biopsies are good prognostic factors. How would you manage this patient? ·       All patients should receive a course of steroids (unless there are contraindi-cations): prednisolone 40 mg per day for 6 weeks.  
Monitor symptoms, CXR, lung function tests. If response is good, continue; if no response then taper over 1 week. 
·       Steroid non-responders may benefit from a course of cyclophosphamide. Occasionally, patients who are unresponsive to  
prednisolone and cyclo-phosphamide will respond to prednisolone and azathioprine. 
·       Identify the underlying cause and manage accordingly. 
What is  the prognosis? The 5-year overall survival rate is 50%, 65% in steroid responders and 25% in steroid non-responders. What are the causes of death in such patients? · Respiratory failure or cor pulmonale precipitated by chest infection. * Ten-fold increase in bronchogenic carcinoma compared with normal controls. What is the role for lung transplantation? Single-lung transplantation is now an established and effective form of treatment for certain individuals. Current survival rate at 1  year is approximately 60% (N Engl J Med 1986; 314:1140-45). What do you know about the Hamman-Rich syndrome? The Hamman-Rich syndrome is a rapidly progressive and fatal variant of interstitial lung disease described by Hamman and  Rich (Bull Johns Hopkins Hosps 1944; 74: 177). Mention indications for transbronchial and open lung biopsy. 
·       Transbronchial: sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, berylliosis, lymphangitis carcinomatosa, extrinsic allergic alveolitis. ·       Open lung biopsy: fibrosing alveolitis, rheumatological disease, pulmonary vasculitis, lymphangioleiomyomatosis, Langerhans  
cell histiocytosis. 
interstitial fibrosis of the lungs. Bull Johns Hopkins Hosps 1944; 74' 177). Dame Margaret Turner-Warwick, contemporary chest physician, was the first woman President of the Royal College of the Physicians of London; her chief interest is  fibrotic lung disease. 
· History of TB, ankylosing spondylitis, radiation. · History of phrenic nerve crush, plombage, thoracotomy. 
Examination ·       The fibrosis is usually apical. ·       Flattening of the chest on the affected side. ·       Tracheal deviation to the affected side. ·       Reduced expansion on the affected side. ·       Dull percussion note. ·       Presence of localized crackles; bronchial breathing may be present. Proceed as follows: Look for the following signs: ·       Scars of phrenic nerve crush, plombage, thoracotomy. ·       Radiation scars.DIAGNOSISThis patient has flattening of the R/L side of the chest with diminished movements on that side, tracheal deviation and localized  crackles (lesion) due to pulmonary fibrosis secondary to tuberculosis (aetiology), and is comfortable at rest (functional status).QUESTIONSMention a few causes of upper lobe fibrosis. 
·       Ankylosing spondylitis. ·       Radiation-induced fibrosis.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhich is the best imaging procedure for the upper lobe lesions? MRI is better for upper lobe lesions than CT of the chest. What is the role of MRI of the thorax? MRI of the thorax is less useful than CT scanning because of poorer imaging of the pulmonary parenchyma and inferior spatial  resolution. However, MRI can provide images in multiple planes (e.g. sagittal, coronal as well as transverse) which CT can not. MRI  is excellent for evaluating processes near the lung apex, spine and thoraco-abdominal junction.On 8 November 1895 R6ntgen discovered what he called X-rays. In the subsequent 7 weeks he meticulously performed experiments, and an X-ray picture of his wife's hand convinced him about the potential role of the new ray. In 1901 he was awarded the  Nobel Prize for physics. Hounsfield's work on CT in the EMI laboratories at Hounslow made it possible to obtain detailed cross-sectional views of the soft tissues, particularly the brain. Sir Godfrey N. Hounsfield (1919-) and Alan M. Cormack (1924-), the latter of Tufts University, Boston, were jointly awarded the 1979 Nobel Prize for Medicine for the  development of computer-assisted tomography. 
·       Sudden onset or rapidly progressive dyspnoea. ·       Ipsilateral acute pleuritic pain - the pain is either sharp or a steady ache. ·       A small pneumothorax may be asymptomatic. ·       Obtain history of recent pleural aspiration or insertion of subclavian line (J R Soc Med 1997: 90: 319-21), recent surgery to  
head and neck, abdominal procedures using bowel or peritoneal distension. 
·       History of asthma, COAD, ARDS, pneumonia, trauma to chest. ·       History of Marfan's syndrome. ·       History of HIV. ·       History of positive pressure ventilation. Examination ·       Decreased movement of the affected side. ·       Increased percussion note. ·       Trachea may be central (small pneumothorax) or deviated to the affected side (underlying collapse of lung) or the opposite side  
(large pneumothorax). 
·       Increased vocal resonance with diminished breath sounds. Proceed as follows: ·       Look for clues regarding aetiology: -Pleural  aspiration site. -Infraclavicular region for a bruise from the central line. -Comment  if the patient is thin or has marfanoid features. 
Inhaler or peak flow meter by the bedside (asthma, COAD). 
·       Tell the examiner that you would suspect tension pneumothorax when there is tachycardia (>135 beats/minute), hypotension  
and pulsus paradoxus. 
secondary to Marfan's syndrome (aetiology), and is not breathless at rest (functional status). Read recent review: N Engl J Med 2000; 342: 868-74. 
QUESTIONS What do you understand by the term 'pneumothorax'? 
Air in the pleural cavity. How would you investigate this patient? ·       CXR, both inspiratory and expiratory phases. In critically ill patients pneumo-thorax is suspected when (a) the costophrenic  
angle extends more inferiorly than usual due to air- the 'deep sulcus sign' (Radiology 1980; 136: 25-7), (b) liver appears more  radiolucent due to air in the CP angle, or on the left side, when the air will outline the medial aspect of the hemidiaphragm  under the heart. 
·       Blood gases if the patient is breathless: hypoxaemia depending on the shunting, whereas hypercapnia does not develop. ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS How would you grade the degree of collapse? British Thoracic Society grading: ·       Small: where there is a small rim of air around the lung. ·       Moderate: when the lung is collapsed towards the heart border. ·       Complete: airless lung, separate from the diaphragm (aspiration is necessary). ·       Tension: any pneumothorax with cardiorespiratory distress (rare and requires immediate  
drainage).                                                                
How would you manage this patient? ·       Small pneumothoraces (less than 20% in size) spontaneously resolve within weeks. ·       Larger ones (irrespective of size) with normal lungs are managed by simple aspir-ation rather than an intercostal tube as the  
initial drainage procedure. Aspiration is less painful than intercostal drainage, leads to a shorter admission and reduces the  need for pleurectomy with no increase in recurrence rate at 1 year. 
·       When there is rapid re-expansion following simple aspiration, an intercostal tube with underwater seal drainage is used. The  
tube should be left in for at least 24 hours. When the lung re-expands, clamp the tube for 24 hours. If repeat radio-graphy  shows that the lung remains expanded, the tube can be removed. If not, suction should be applied to the tube. If it fails to  resolve within I week, surgical pleurodesis should be considered. Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery with several chest ports  allows clear visualization of the pleural cavity for resection of bullae and pleurodesis. 
What are the causes of pneumothorax? · Spontaneous (usually in thin males). · Trauma. · Bronchial asthma. · COAD - emphysematous bulla (JAMA 1975; 234: 389-93). · Carcinoma of the lung. · Cystic fibrosis. · TB (the original descriptions of pneumothorax were commonly associated with TB, JAMA 1931; 96: 653-7). 
·       Mechanical ventilation. ·       Marfan's syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. ·       Catamenial pneumothorax, i.e. pneumothorax that occurs in association with menstruation. How would you  perform a  pleurodesis? By injecting talc into the pleural cavity via the intercostal tube. In  which patients would you avoid doing a pleurodesis? In patients with underlying cystic fibrosis. These patients may require lung trans-plantation in the future and pleurodesis may make  this procedure technically not feasible. When would you suspect a tension pneumothorax? Tension pneumothorax should be suspected in the presence of any of the following: ·       Severe progressive dyspnoea. ·       Severe tachycardia. ·       Hypotension. ·       Marked mediastinal shift. When should open thoracotomy be considered? It should be considered if one of the following is present: ·       A third episode of spontaneous pneumothorax. ·       Any occurrence of bilateral pneumothorax. ·       Failure of the lung to expand after tube thoracostomy for the first episode. O.K. Williamson (1866-1941), an English physician, described the Williamson sign, i.e. blood pressure in the leg is lower than that in  the upper limb on the affected side in pneumothorax. 
The use of simple aspiration to manage pneumothorax was first reported by O.G. Raja in 1981 when he was a medical registrar (BrJ   Dis Chest 1981; 75: 207-8).INSTRUCTIONExamine this patient's chest.SALIENT FEATURESHistory · Fever and night sweats. · Malaise, fatigue, anorexia. · Weight loss. · Cough with sputum. 
Examination These'patients tend to have signs of common chest diseases which are not cut and dried. There are several masons for this, such  as pleural thickening, thoracotomy and pneumonectomy, associated COAD, associated chest infection, plombage or phrenic nerve  crush. The following provide some examples: Patient 1 The candidate was asked to examine the chest from the front, as a result of which the old thoracotomy scar was not seen. The  patient was wheezy. The trachea was deviated to the right. Percussion note was stony dull from the right second inter-costal space  downwards. Wheeze was present on the left side. This patient had a right pneumonectomy with COAD in the left lung. The  candidate's diagnosis of right-sided pleural effusion with underlying collapse and left-sided COAD was accepted. Patient 2 The trachea was central. A phrenic nerve crush scar was seen. Percussion note was dull in the left infra-axillary region and there  were associated crackles. The diag-nosis of pleural thickening with associated chest infection was accepted; that of pleural effusion  was not.QUESTIONSHow would you manage a patient with old tuberculosis? Old tuberculosis requires no antituberculosis treatment. However, the patient may require symptomatic treatment for wheeze and  shortness of breath. In which groups of people is the risk of tuberculosis high? · Asian and Irish immigrants. · The elderly. · Immunocompromised individuals, particularly AIDS patients. · Alcoholics. * Occupations at risk: doctors, nurses, chest physiotherapists.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWould you isolate a patient with newly diagnosed, sputum-positive, pulmonary TB? Yes. Segregation in a single room for 2 weeks is recommended for patients with smear-positive tuberculosis. Barrier nursing,  however, is unnecessary. Adults with smear-negative or non-pulmonary disease may be in a general ward. A child with TB should  be segregated until the source case is identified as this person may be visiting the child. How are contacts investigated? Contacts are investigated by inquiry into bacille Calmette-Gudrin (BCG) vac-cination site, Heaf testing and CXR examination. 
To whom would you offer BCG vaccination? BCG vaccination is offered to previously unvaccinated, persistently Heat' test-negative or grade 1 contacts aged under 35 years  unless there is a special occu-pational, travel or ethnic risk. Patients with known or suspected HIV infection should not be offered the  vaccination. What are the indications for chemoprophylaxis? ·       Chemoprophylaxis may be given to those with strongly positive Heat' test reactions but no clinical or radiological evidence of  
TB (Thorax 1994; 49:1193-200). 
·       Chemoprophylaxis should be given to children under 5 years who are close contacts of a smear-positive adult irrespective of  
their tuberculin test result. 
·       If chemoprophylaxis is not undertaken, follow-up with periodic CXR examin-ations for 2 years is recommended in all these  
groups. 
Which rapid test allows early diagnosis of tuberculosis? Polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Robert Koch (1843-1910), Institute for Infectious Diseases, Berlin, was awarded the 1905 Nobel Prize for Medicine for his  
investigations and discoveries in relation to tuberculosis.  Kary Mullis of the USA was awarded the Nobel Prize for developing the technique of polymerase chain reaction.INSTRUCTIONLook at this patient.SALIENT FEATURESHistory · Daytime somnolence. · Unrefreshing sleep. · Daytime fatigue. · Snoring. · Shortness of breath. · Headache, particularly in the morning. · Swelling of feet. · Poor concentration. · Systemic hypertension. · Family history of obesity. · Gastro-oesophageal reflux. · Poor quality of life. 
Examination ·       Obese patient who is plethoric and cyanosed. ·       Maxillary or mandibular hypoplasia. ·       Shortness of breath at rest. ·       May be nodding off to sleep. ·       Systemic hypertension. ·       Nocturnal angina. ·       Look for signs of pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure. Remember. Nearly 50% of patients with sleep apnoea syndrome are not obese. DIAGNOSIS This patient has marked obesity and hypersomnolence with signs of pulmonary hypertension (lesion) which indicate that she has  pickwickian syndrome. The patient is in cardiac failure (functional status). 
Read reviews: J R Coil Phys (Lond) 1993; 27: 3634; J R Coil Phys (Lond) 1993; 27: 375. 
A mixture of obstructive apnoea and sleep-induced hypoventilation. The blood gas picture is hypoxia and carbon dioxide retention. Where is the obstruction? It is caused by the apposition of the tongue and the palate on the posterior pharyngeal wall. How would you treat such a patient? · Weight reduction. · Avoidance of smoking and alcohol. · Progesterone (enhances respiratory drive). ·       Continuous nasal positive airway pressure delivered by a nasal mask (lancet 1999; 353: 2100-5). ·       Home oxygen. ·       Surgery: tracheostomy, uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, linguoplasty, mandibular advancement, plastic remodelling of the uvula  
(laser-assisted or radiofrequency ablation). 
·       Drugs: serotonin receptor blockade, acetazolamide, methylxanthines, weight loss medications.Mr. Pickwick is a character in the novel Pickwick Papers, written by Charles Dickens; the term was applied by Sir William Osier. 
Examine this patient's chest. 
SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Sudden onset of breathlessness. ·       History of cough. ·       History of asthma, TB, lung cancer. Examination · Trachea deviated to the affected side. · Movements decreased on the affected side. · Percussion note dull on the affected side. · Breath sounds diminished on the affected side. Proceed as follows: Tell the examiner that you would like to look for tar staining (tobacco smoking), clubbing and cachexia (bronchogenic carcinoma, see  pp 274-6). DIAGNOSIS This patient has a collapsed lung (lesion); you would like to exclude malignancy (aetiology). He is breathless at rest (functional  status). QUESTIONS What are the causes of lung collapse? These include: ·       Bronchogenic carcinoma. ·       Mucus plugs (asthma, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis; BMJ1982; 285: 552). ·       Extrinsic compression from hilar adenopathy (e.g. primary TB). ·       Tuberculosis (Brock's syndrome). ·       Other intrabronchial tumours including bronchial adenoma. What are the chest radiograph findings of collapse of the right middle lobe? The loss of definition of the right heart border reflects collapse (or consolidation) affecting the right middle lc}he 
It is collapse due to compression of the right middle lobe bronchus by an enlarged lymph node. Sir Russell C. Brock (1903-1980) graduated from Guy's Hospital and was surgeon at Guy's and Brompton Hospitals. His interests included both  thoracic and cardiac surgery. He was the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, 1963-1966. 
·       Gastrointestinal symptoms: dysphagia, nausea, vomiting, altered bowel move-ment, jaundice. ·       Renal symptoms: oliguria, history of renal failure. ·       History of diabetes, hypertension. ·       History of ascites, swelling of feet, mass in the abdomen.EXAMINATION OF THE ABDOMEN1.     Ensure the patient is lying flat (remove any extra pillows, if' present, with the permission of the patient); the hands should lie by  
the patient's side with the abdomen exposed/'rom the inframammary region to just above the genitalia. Do not expose the  genitalia. 
2.     Begin with the hands, looking for the following signs: · Clubbing, leukonychia (white chalky nails). · Palmar erythema. 
· Dupuytren's contracture (feel for thickening of the fascia). · Hepatic flap. 
3.     Examine the arms: look for arteriovenous fistula, haemodialysis catheters, spider naevi. 4.     Comment on the skin: · Pigmentation. · Scratch marks. 5.     Examine the following: 
· Supraclavicular and cervical lymph nodes. · Tongue for pallor. · Eyes for anaemia, jaundice, xanthelasma. · Upper chest and face for spider naevi. · Axilla for hair loss, acanthosis nigricans. · Breast for gynaecomastia. 
6.     Inspect the abdomen, looking for the following signs: 
·       Movements. ·       Any obvious mass. ·       Visible veins (check direction of flow, which is usually away from the umbilicus). ·       Visible peristalsis. ·       Hernial orifices (ask the patient to cough at this stage). ·       Expansile pulsations of aortic aneurysm. 
7.     Ask the patient whether the abdomen is sore at any part. 8.     Palpation: kneel on the floor or sit on a chair before you begin palpation. At all times look at the patient's eyes to check whether  
he or she winces in pain. Begin with superficial pain and begin in the least tender area. Palpate in all the quadrants (remember  that there are four quadrants). 
9. Palpate: 
·       For mass - determine its characteristics. ·       Liver (percuss for upper border using heavy percussion, for lower border using light percussion). ·       Kidneys (bimanual palpation, demonstrate ballottement). ·       Groin for lymph nodes. ·       Check hernial orifices. ·       Test for expansile pulsation of an aortic aneurysm. 
10.   Percuss, looking for shifting dullness (at this stage, when the patient is lying on his or her right side, seize the opportunity to  
examine for a small spleen and for pitting oedema over the sacral region). Remember that abdominal percussion should follow  adequate inspection and percussion. 
11.   Auscultate: 
·       Over an enlarged liver for bruit. · Over a suspected aortic aneurysm. · For bowel sounds. 
12.   Tell the examiner that you would like to perform a rectal examination and examine the external genitalia. 13.   Examine the legs for oedema. 
· Shortness of breath, leg oedema (heart failure). · History of alcohol ingestion, cirrhosis. · History of malignancies (secondaries in the liver). · History of leukaemia or lymphoma. Examination · Enlarged liver: comment on its size, tenderness, surface (smooth or irregular); percuss the upper border (normally in the fifth  
intercostal space in the right midclavicular line) and auscultate for bruit (N Engl J Med 1962; 266: 554-5; JAMA 1968; 206:  2518-20; Postgrad Med 1977; 62: 131-4). 
· Remember: how far the liver extends below the costal margin is of less importance than 'liver span', particularly in patients with  
emphysema or flattened diaphragms. 
Note, By percussion, the mean liver size is 7 cm for women and 10.5 cm for men. A liver span 2-3 cm larger or smaller than these  values is considered abnormal. The liver size depends on several factors including age, sex, body size, shape and the examination  technique utilized (e.g. palpation versus percussion versus radio-graphic) (Ann Intern Med 1969; 70:1183-9). Proceed as follows: ·       Look for the following signs: -Spleen for ascites.  -  Signs of cirrhosis. - Lymph nodes. - Raised JVP. - Hepatic flap. ·       At this stage you may be asked to look for nervous system signs of alcoholism (peripheral neuropathy, proximal myopathy,  
cerebellar syndrome, bilateral sixth cranial nerve palsy as in Wernicke's encephalopathy, recent memory loss and confabulation  in Korsakoff's psychosis). 
particularly in the gastrointestinal tract (aetiology). 
A stretch of its capsule due to a recent enlargement, as in cardiac failure or acute hepatitis. What are the common causes of a palpable liver in the UK? · Cardiac failure (firm, smooth, tender, mild to massive enlargement). · Cirrhosis (non-tender, firm; in later stages the liver decreases in size). · Secondaries in the liver (enlarged with rock-hard or nodular consistency).ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSMention some less common causes of hepatomegaly. · Leukaemia and other reticuloendothelial disorders. · Infections - glandular fever, infectious hepatitis. · Primary biliary cirrhosis. · Haemochromatosis. · Sarcoid, amyloid. · Tumours - hepatoma, hydatid cysts. Note. The liver may be felt without being enlarged in the following circumstances: increased diaphragmatic descent, presence of  emphysema with an associated depressed diaphragm, thin body habitus with a narrow thoracic cage, presence of a palpable  Riedel's lobe and right-sided pleural effusion. In which condition does a pulsatile liver occur? Tricuspid regurgitation. What does a hepatic arterial bruit over the liver indicate? The hepatic arterial bruit has been described in alcoholic hepatitis, primary or metastatic carcinoma. Although reported to occur in  cirrhosis, it is rare without associated alcoholic hepatitis (Lancet1966; ii: 516-19). 
What does the presence of an abdominal venous hum indicate? It is virtually diagnostic of portal venous hypertension (usually due to cirrhosis) (Br Heart J 1950; 12: 343-50). When present together  with the hepatic arterial bruit in the same patient, it suggests cirrhosis with either alcoholic hepatitis or cancer. What do you know about Cruveilhier-Baumgarten syndrome? It is the presence of the abdominal venous hum in portal hypertension secondary to cirrhosis (Am J Med 1954; 17: 143-50). What does a hepatic friction rub indicate? In a young woman it could be due to gonococcal perihepatitis (Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome) and in others it could indicate hepatic  neoplasm with inflammatory changes or infection in or adjacent to the liver. The presence of a hepatic rub with a bruit usually  indicates cancer of the liver (JAMA 1979; 241: 1495), whereas the presence of the hepatic rub, bruit and abdominal venous hum  indicates that a patientwilh cirrhosis has developecl n hepatoma 
Hans Popper (1903-1988), Professor of Pathology at Chicago and the founding dean of Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York; he is regarded  as the founding father of hepatology. Howard Clarence Thomas, contemporary Professor of Medicine, St Mary's Hospital Medical School, Paddington, London; his main interest is viral  hepatitis. 
·       Historyof fatigue, weight loss, jaundice. ·           History of alcohol abuse. ·           History of hepatitis B, intravenous blood products. ·           History of intravenous drug abuse. ·           Mental status changes (hepatic encephalopathy). ·           History of drugs (methyldopa, amiodarone, methotrexate). ·           History of Wilson's disease, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency.Examination· In the hands: 
-Clubbing, leukonychia. -Dupuytren's contracture (see Fig. 90), palmar erythema. Spider nevi tattoos, hepatic flap, pallor. Scratch marks, generalized pigmentation. 
· Eyes and face: icterus, cyanosis, parotid enlargement. · Chest: spider naevi, loss of axillary hair, gynaecomastia. · Abdomen: 
-Splenomegaly (seldom more than 5 cm below the costal margin). Ascites. - Hepatomegaly (particularly in alcoholic liver disease). 
· Loss of hair on the shins. · Leg oedema. · Tell the examiner that you would like to look for testicular atrophy. 
alcohol abuse (aetiology). The patient has hepatic flap indicating liver cell failure (functional status).QUESTIONSWhat is cirrhosis ? Cirrhosis is defined pathologically as a diffuse liver abnormality characterized by fibrosis and abnormal regenerating nodules. Mention a few causes of cirrhosis of the liver. · Alcohol dependence. · Hepatitis B virus infection (look for tattoos). 
· Lupoid hepatitis. · Primary biliary cirrhosis. · Haemochromatosis. · Drugs - methyldopa, amiodarone, methotrexate. · Metabolic: Wilson's disease, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. · Cryptogenic. How would you investigate this patient? · FBC including haemoglobin and platelet count. · Liver function tests'including T-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT). · Prothrombin time. · Hepatitis B markers. · Serum autoantibodies. · Serum iron and ferritin. · Serum alpha -fetoprotein. · Ascitic fluid analysis. · Ultrasonography of the liver. Why does this patient have a Iow serum albumin concentration? Albumin is synthesized in the liver. In cirrhosis there is liver cell failure, causing impaired synthesis. What are the major sequelae of cirrhosis? · Portal hypertension. · Variceal haemorrhages. · Hepatic encephalopathy. · Ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. · Hepatorenal syndrome. · Coagulopathy. · Hepatocellular carcinoma.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat are the poor prognostic factors? · Encephalopathy. 
· Low serum sodium concentration, less than 120 mmol/l (not due to diuretic therapy). · Low serum albumin level, less than 25 g/l. · Prolonged prothrombin time. What factors can precipitate hepatic encephalopathy in a patient with previously well-compensated hepatic cirrhosis? · Infection. · Diuretics, electrolyte imbalance. · Diarrhoea and vomiting. · Sedatives. · Upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. · Abdominal paracentesis. · Surgery. How would you manage variceal bleeding in cirrhosis? · Blood transfusion to replace falling haematocrit. · Early endoscopy to confirm the bleeding site. · Endoscopic sclerotherapy with octreotide (N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 555-60). · Intravenous vasopressin is less effective than  sclerotherapy. · Endoscopic ligation (N Engl J Med 1999; 340: 988-93). 
·       Balloon tamponade is effective in temporarily stopping bleeding while awaiting more definitive therapy. ·       Combination of vapreotide (a somatostatin analogue) and endoscopic treatment (N Engl J Med 2001; 344: 23-8). ·       Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent-shunt (N Engl J Med 1994; 330: 165-71). ·       Combination of nadolol and isosorbide mononitrate (N Engl J Med 1996; 334: 1624-9). 
Ask the patient about the following: 
· His or her age (hepatitis is more common in the young and carcinoma in the elderly). 
·       Sore throat and rash (infectious mononucleosis). ·       Occupation (Well's disease in sewerage and farm workers). ·       Contact with jaundice (hepatitis A). ·       Drug history (oral contraceptives, phenothiazines). ·       Blood transfusions, injections, arthritis, urticaria (hepatitis B). ·       Alcohol consumption. ·       Pruritus (cholestasis due to hepatitis A, primary biliary cirrhosis). ·       Colour of the uriue. ·       Colour of the stools (pale stools in obstructive jaundice). ·       Abdominal pain (cholecystitis, gallstones, cholangitis, carcinoma of the pancreas). ·       Past history (recurrent.jaundice, as in Dubin-Johnson syndrome). ·       Fever, rigors and abdominal pain (suggests cholangitis). Examination · Examine the following: -        Hands (clubbing, palmar erythema, Dupuytren's contracture). 
Sclera (to confirm the icterus). 
-Conjunctiva (for pallor). - Neck (lymph nodes). 
Upper chest (spider naevi, loss of axillary hair and gynaecomastia). Abdomen (hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, Murphy's sign, palpable gallbladder, ascites). Legs (for pitting oedema). 
·       Tell the examiner that you would like to investigate as follows: -Examine the urine. -       Perform a per rectum examination. Remember.  The most important question to answer in the evaluation of any jaundiced patient is 'Will this patient require surgery to  relieve biliary obstruction'?'DIAGNOSISThis patient is markedly icteric and has spider naevi and gynaecomastia (lesions) due to alcoholic liver disease (aetiology).QUESTIONSWhat do you understand by the term 'jaundice'? It is the yellowish discoloration of skin, sclera and mucous membrane due to the accumulation of bile pigments. It is usually clinically  manifest when the serum bilirubin concentration is at least 7-8 mg/dl. How would you differentiate jaundice from carotenaemia? The discoloration of carotenaemia is differentiated from jaundice by the absence of yellow colour in the sclera and mucous  membranes, normal urine colour and the presence of yellow-brown pigmentation of carotenoid pigment in the palms, soles and  nasolabial folds. 
What is Murphy's sign and what does it indicate? It is the tenderness elicited on palpation at the midpoint of the right subcostal margin on inspiration. It is a sign of cholecystitis. Have you heard of Courvoisier's law? It states that in a patient with obstructive jaundice a palpable gallbladder is unlikely to be due to chronic cholecystitis. What is Charcot's fever? Intermittent fever associated with jaundice and abdominal discomfort in a patient with cholangitis and biliary obstruction. How would you investigate this patient? ·       Urine for bile pigments. · FBC. ·       Serum haptoglobulin, reticulocyte count and Coombs' test (if you suspect haemolysis). ·       Liver function tests (serum albumin, bilirubin, enzymes). ·       Prothrombin time. ·       Viral studies (hepatitis antigen and antibodies, Epstein-Burr virus antibodies). ·       Ultrasonography of the abdomen (if you suspect cholestatic jaundice). ·       Special investigations: mitochondrial antibodies, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), CT of the  
abdomen, liver biopsy. 
It is a rare benign condition characterized by jaundice and pigmentation secondary to a failure of excretion of conjugated bilirubin.  The liver is stained by melanin in the centrilobular zone. The bromsulphthalein test shows a late secondary rise at 90 minutes. 
Mention a few causes of postoperative jaundice. Causes of postoperative jaundice (usually occurring in the first 3 postoperative weeks) include: · Resorption of haematomas, haemoperitoneum, haemolysis of transfused erythrocytes (particularly when stored blood products are  
used), haemolysis due to glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. 
· Impaired hepatocellular function due to halogenated anaesthetics, sepsis, hepatic ischaemia secondary to perioperative  
hypotension. 
· Extrahepatic biliary obstruction due to biliary stones, unsuspected injury to biliary tree. How does estimation of serum hilirubin concentration help in discerning the aetiology of jaundice? Normal serum bilirubin concentration is no greater than 1.5 mg/dl and consists predominantly of the unconjugated form. When  jaundice is primarily due to haemo-lysis or a disorder of bilirubin conjugation, the unconjugated form constitutes at least 85% of the  total. With normal liver function, haemolysis alone does not produce a serum bilirubin level greater than 4 mg/dl. A rise in serum  bilirubin levels 
serum bilirubin level of patients with pure biliary obstruction seldom exceeds 30 mg/dl; a greater value indicates that there is associated hepatocellular  jaundice as well. A. Gilbert (1858-1927), Professor of Medicine at I'H6tel Dieu in Paris. P.S.A. Weil (1848-1916), Professor of Medicine in Tartu, Estonia and Berlin. J.B. Murphy (1857-1916), Professor of Surgery at Northwestern University in Chicago. J. Courvoisier (1843-1918), Professor of Surgery, Basel, Switzerland. I.N. Dubin, Professor of Pathology, Pennsylvania, and EB. Johnson, pathologist, Veterans Administration Hospital, Washington. 
·           History of abdominal distension, dyspnoea. ·           History of pain in the abdomen (spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, malignancy). ·           History of heart failure, renal failure or liver disease. ·           History of TB (peritoneal tuberculosis). ·           History of malignancy (mesothelioma, metastatic spread from primary tumours). Examination ·           Full flanks and umbilicus. ·           Presence of shifting dullness (always percuss with your finger parallel to the level of fluid). ·           If the ascites is gross, use the 'dipping' method of palpation to feel the liver and spleen. ·           Look for stigmata of underlying disease (e.g. signs of cirrhosis, cardiac failure, renal failure or malignancy). Proceed as follows: Check for sacral oedema and swollen ankles.DIAGNOSISThis patient has marked ascites and leg oedema with splenomegaly (lesions) due to portal hypertension, the cause of which needs to be investigated  (aetiology). 
Fat, fluid, faeces, flatus and fetus. What do you understand by the term 'ascites'? It is the pathological accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. What are the common causes of ascitic fluid? · Portal hypertension with cirrhosis. · Abdominal malignancy. · Congestive cardiac failure. What investigations would you perform to determine the underlying ca use ? Diagnostic paracentesis for proteins and malignant cells, ultrasonography of the abdomen, peritoneal biopsy or laparoscopy if the  
cause remains unclear. What is the difference between an exudate and a transudate? An exudate has a protein content of over 25 g/l.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat are the mechanisms of ascites formation in cirrhosis? ·       It is caused by a combination of liver failure and portal hypertension. Liver failure decreases renal blood flow, resulting in  
retention of salt and water. 
·       Secondary hyperaldosteronism due to increased renin release and decreased metabolism of aldosterone by the liven ·       Decreased metabolism of aldosterone by the liver. ·       Decreased metabolism of antidiuretic hormone. ·       Hypoalbuminaemia which decreases colloid oncotic pressure. ·       Lymphatic obstruction, resulting in a 'weeping' liven ·       More recently, overproduction of nitric oxide has been proposed to be important in the pathogenesis of ascites, sodium and  
water retention and haemodynamic abnormalities in cirrhosis (N Engl J Med 1998; 339:53341 ). Inhibition of nitric oxide  synthesis improves sodium and water excretion in cirrhotic rats with ascites. 
What is the relationship between ascites and chronic liver disease? ·       Ascites indicates decompensation of previously asymptomatic chronic liver disease. ·       Ascites occurs in about half of the patients within 10 years of a diagnosis of compensated cirrhosis. ·       The development of fluid retention in patients with chronic liver disease is a poor prognostic sign - only half of these patients  
survive beyond 2 years. 
What do you know about the serum-ascites albumin gradient? It is calculated by subtracting the ascitic fluid albumin concentration from the serum albumin concentration from samples obtained at  the same time. This gradient correlates directly with portal pressure; those whose gradient exceeds 1.1 g/dl have portal hypertension  and those with gradients of less than 1.1 g/dl do not. The accuracy of such determinations is 97%. 
How would you manage a patient with cirrhosis and ascites? The most important treatments are sodium restriction and diuretics (N Engl J Med 1994; 330: 33742): ·       Sodium restriction to 88 mmol per day; only 15% of these patients lose weight or have a reduction in ascitic fluid with this  
therapy alone. 
·       Fluid restriction is usually not necessary unless the serum sodium concentration drops below 120 mmol/1. ·       When the patient has tense ascites, 5 litres or more of ascitic fluid should be removed to relieve shortness of breath, to  
diminish early satiety and to prevent pressure-related leakage of fluid from the site of a previous paracentesis. 
·       Diuretic therapy should be initiated immediately, before which the serum sodium concentration of a random urine sample  
should be measured. Serial monitoring of urinary sodium concentration helps to determine the optimal dose of diuretic; doses  are increased until a negative sodium balance is achieved. The most effective diuretic regimen is a combination of  spironolactone and furosemide (frusemide). More than 90% of patients respond to this therapy. 
·        Diuretic-resistant ascites: -Therapeutic paracentesis with infusion of salt-free albumin (reported to 
decrease hospital stay). 
-Peritoneovenous shunting, e.g. LeVeen shunt, limited by the high rate of 
infection and disseminated intravascular coagulation. 
-Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt (TIPS) is a non-surgical side-to-side shunt consisting of a stented channel  
between a main branch of the portal vein and the hepatic vein. The stent shunt is associated with an operative mortality rate of  1% compared with 5-39% lor surgical shunts (N Engl J Med 1995; 332:1192-7).  -Extracorporeal  ultrafiltration of ascitic fluid  with reinfusion.  -  Liver transplantation. 
In patients with cirrhosis and refractory or recurrent ascites would you prefer paracentesis or TIPS? A recent study suggests that, in comparison with large volume paracentesis, the creation of a TIPS can improve the chance of  survival without liver transplantation in these patients (N Engl J Med 2000; 342:1701-7). These investigators defined the ascites as  refractory when the patients did not respond to diuretic therapy (a dose of at least 300 mg of spironolactone per day or 120 mg  furosemide (frusemide) per day). Patients were excluded from the study if they had hepatic encephalopathy of grade 2 or higher, a  serum bilirubin concentration of more than 86 umol/l, portal vein thrombosis or a serum creatinine concentration of more than 3  mg/dl (265 gmol/1). TIPS is ineffective in those patients with associated intrinsic renal disease. What are the complications of ascites? · Respiratory embarrassment may complicate large amounts of ascites. ·       Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is seen in cirrhotics (suspect when there is an ascitic fluid leukocyte count of 500 cells per gl,  
or more than 250 poly-morphonuclear cells per gl; empirical therapy with a non-nephrotoxic broad-spectrum antibiotic should  be initiated immediately). 
· Constrictive pericarditis. · Tuberculous peritonitis. · Chylous ascites. 
· Budd-Chiari syndrome. · Meigs' syndrome. What do you know about the pathogenesis of ascites in cirrhotics?  Two theories have been proposed (N Engl J Med 1982; 307: 1577): ·           Underfilling theory: this suggests that the primary abnormality is inappropriate sequestration of fluid within the splanchnic vascular bed due to  
portal hyper-tension. This results in a decrease in intravascular volume and the kidney responds by retaining salt and water. 
·           Overflow theory: this suggests that the primary abnormality is inappropriate retention of salt and water by the kidney in the absence of volume  
depletion. 
G. Budd (1808-1882), Professor of Medicine at King's College, London. H. Chiari (1851-1916), Professor of Pathology at the German University in Prague. J.V. Meigs (1892-1963), Professor of Gynaecology at Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital. H.H. LeVeen, gastroenterologist at the Veterans Administration Hospital in New York. Sometime during the rule of Tiberius (25-50 AD), the physician Celsus wrote about oedema. 'A chronic malady may develop in patients who collect  water under their skin. The Greeks call this hydrops. There are three types: a) Sometimes the water is all drawn within and is called ascites, b)  sometimes the body is rendered uneven by swellings arising here and there and all over. The Greeks call this hyposrka and c) sometimes the belly is  tense. The Greeks call this tympanites (adapted from BMJ1999;  318:  1610-3).' 
·       Family history. ·           Skin tan. ·           Shortness of breath (cardiac failure). ·           Diabetes (pancreatic involvement). 
joint may be involved. 
·       Melaena, haematemesis (bleeding from varices). Examination · The patient is a pigmented male over 30 years of age. · Palmar erythema, spider naevi. · Jaundice. · Ascites, hepatomegaly (firm, regular). · Loss of secondary sexual hair. Proceed as follows: Tell the examiner that you would like to investigate as follows: ·       Look for testicular atrophy (due to iron deposition affecting hypothalamo-pituitary function). ·       Examine the heart for dilated cardiomyopathy, cardiac failure. ·       Check urine for sugar, looking for evidence of diabetes mellitus (present in 80% of cases). Remember. Such patients develop cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.DIAGNOSISThis male patient has generalized hyperpigmentation, hepatomegaly and signs of liver cell disease (lesions) due to  haemochromatosis which may be hereditary (aetiology).ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSDoes this disease run in families? Yes, and it is an autosomal recessive condition. Two mutations of the HFE gene (845A (C282Y) and 187C (H63D)) account for 90%  of the cases of European extraction. It is closely associated with human leukocyte antigen HLA-A3 and to a lesser extent with HLA-B  14 antigen. The responsible alleles are on the short arm of chromosome 6 (Nat Genet 1996; 13: 399-408). Asymptomatic close  relatives of patients with hereditary haemochromatosis, in particular siblings, should be advised to undergo screening, i.e.  measurements of serum ferritin and iron, and saturation of iron-binding capacity. Recent data have shown that hereditary  haemochromatosis can occur in adults who do not have pathogenic mutations on the gene on chromosome 6 (N Engl J Med 1999;  341: 725-32; N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 718-24). A substantial number of homozygous relatives of these patients (more commonly  
men) have disease-related conditions such as cirrhosis, hepatic fibrosis, elevated aminotransferase and haemochromatotic  arthropathy that have yet to be detected clinically (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1529-35). Also, 10% or more of the patients with  clinically severe hereditary haemochromatosis do not have either mutation. These facts limit the value of diagnostic DNA testing. 
CASE 115                                                                                                    ABDOMEN What is the mechanism of increased iron uptake? Iron absorption is mediated by the duodenal metal transporter, DMT-I (also called NRAMP-2). It has been suggested that increased  NRAMP-2 mRNA expression in the duodenal mucosa of patients with hereditary haemochromatosis may promote duodenal uptake  of iron and result in iron overload (Lancet 1999; 353: 2120-3). What is the benefit of early identification? Early venesection has shown benefits, particularly in those who have not developed diabetes mellitus or cirrhosis. Early venesection  prevents progression of hepatic disease and may consequently prevent the complication of hepatocellular carcinoma. How would you confirm your diagnosis? · Transferrin saturation is increased. · Serum ferritin levels are raised. · Liver biopsy to measure iron stores is a definitive test. How would you manage such a patient? *      Avoidance of alcohol and Indian balti curries which are prepared in cast iron cookware (BMJ 1995; 310: 1368). ·       Avoidance of uncooked shellfish and marine fish since patients are susceptible to fatal septicaemia from the marine bacterium  
Vibrio vulnificus. 
·       Venesection prolongs life and often reverses tissue damage. Initially, weekly venesection for 2 years (as 50 g iron or more is  
removed) and then once every 3 months. Many manifestations improve (insulin requirements often diminish except for  testicular atrophy and chrondrocalcinosis. 
What is the commonest cause of death in patients with hereditary haemochromatosis ?  The most common cause of death is hepatocellular carcinoma, for which the risk is 200-fold greater than in  the general population. Depletion of iron, and even reversal of cirrhosis, do not totally prevent the occurrence of this fatal neoplasm.  Patients diagnosed in the subclinical, precirrhotic stage and treated by regular phlebotomy have a normal life expectancy (N Engl J  Med 1985; 313: 1256-62). Mention a few causes of generalized pigmentation. Common causes are sun tan and race. Uncommon causes are as follows: ·       Liver disease: haemochromatosis in males; primary biliary cirrhosis in females. ·       Addison's disease. ·       Uraemia. ·       Chronic debilitating conditions such as malignancy. The term 'haemochromatosis' was first used by von Recklinghausen (see p. 199) in 1889 to describe autopsy findings in men with  cirrhosis associated with massive deposition of iron in the hepatocytes (von Recklinghausen FD 1889 Ueber Hemochromatose.  Tageblatt Versamrnl Dtsch Naturforsch Aertze Heidelberg 62: 324-5). The inherited nature of haemochromatosis was first recognized by Sheldon in 1935 (Sheldon JH 1935 Haemochromatosis. Oxford  University Press, London). 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's abdomen. SALIENT FEATURES History · Pruritus (affecting half the patients) - more common in men. · Fatigue (commonest symptom). · Lethargy and pain in the right upper quadrant (in a quarter of the patients). ·       Symptoms of hepatic decompensation (jaundice, ascites, variceal haemorrhage) in a fifth of patients. ·       Steatorrhoea. 
EXAMINATION · Usually occurs in middle-aged women. · Clubbing. · Generalized pigmentation. · Xanthelasma (may occur at any stage but more common in advanced disease). · lcterus. · Scratch marks. · Hepatosplenomegaly (common in early stages). Proceed as follows: · Look for xanthomata over joints, skin folds and sites of trauma to the skin. ·       Remember that there may be clinical features of other autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, dry mouth of  
Sj6gren's syndrome, systemic sclerosis, CREST syndrome (see p. 506), Hashimoto's thyroiditis, dermatomyositis. 
·       Check for proximal muscle weakness due to osteomalacia. ·       Examine for peripheral neuropathy. ·       Tell the examiner that you would like to test for high serum levels of alkaline phosphatase and antimitochondrial antibodies  
(present in 95% of the patients, with the M2 antibody being more specific; it is almost always negative in extra-hepatic  obstruction). 
DIAGNOSIS This middle-aged woman has generalized pigmentation, jaundice, xanthelasmata and pruritus with hepatosplenomegaly (lesions)  due to primary biliary cirrhosis (aetiology). She is in liver cell failure as evidenced by the hepatic flap (functional status). 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS How does primary biliary cirrhosis present? Classically, it presents with itching in a middle-aged woman. However, in 50% of cases there may be no liver symptoms. There are 4  phases: 1. Asymptomutic with normal liver tests' Antibodies to pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (antimitochondrial antibodies, AMA) are detectable. Approximately three quarters of  these patients develop symptoms of PBC in 2 years; 83% developed abnormal liver function tests at a median period of 5 years from  first detection of AMA (Lancet 1996; 348: 1399402). Most patients have liver histology compatible with or diagnostic of PBC. In one  series none had died from liver disease 12 years after AMA detection (d Hepatol 1994; 20:707-13). 2. Symptomless with abnormal liver tests Circulating AMA are present. More than half have established fibrosis at diagnosis. Up to 80% of patients develop symptoms or  signs of PBC during the first 5 years of follow-up. The median time from diagnosis to death is 8-12 years. 3. Symptomatic Lethargy and pruritus are prominent, and time to death or transplantation is 5-10 years. 4. Decompensated primary biliary cirrhosis Signs include ascites, variceal haemorrhage and jaundice. The mean time to death or transplantation is 3-5 years. What diseases are associated with primary biliary cirrhosis? · Common (up to 80%): sicca syndrome (p. 339). ·       Frequent (-20%): arthralgia, fibrosing alveolitis, Raynaud's syndrome, sclerodactyly, thyroid disease. ·       Rare (<5%): Addison's disease, glomerulonephritis, hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy, myasthenia gravis, systemic  
lupus erythematosus, thrombo-cytopenic purpura, vitiligo. 
Is primary biliary cirrhosis associated with cancer? It is estimated that these patients have a 20-fold increased relative risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma and increased risk of  cancer overall (Hepatology 1997: 26:113842). How would you investigate this patient? Liver function  tests Normal in presymptomatic stage , characteristically cholestatic pattern (raised alkaline phosphatase, 5-nucleotidase and y-glutamyl  transpeptidase); serum amino-transferases may be slightly raised but rarely exceed 5 times the upper limit of normal. Serum bilirubin  is normal initially but rises as disease progresses. Once serum bilirubin exceeds 170 [tmol/1, the estimated survival is less than 18  months (Gut1979; 20: 137-40). Hepatic synthetic  function Well preserved until late stages; a prolonged prothrombin time may indicate mai-absorption of vitamin K due to cholestasis. 
Serum  !ipids Hypercholesterolaemia is common. Lipoprotein lp(a) is low; HDL cholesterol is increased in the early stages but falls as the disease  progresses. Immunological tests 
IgM and lgG are elevated; complement activation although C3 levels are normal; several antibodies are elevated but antibodies to  components of the nuclear pore complex and AMA are very closely elevated with PBC. AMA is found in 96% of patients with PBC  but the E2 subtype is specific to PBC. Autoimmune cholangitis is a variant of PBC which has characteristic histological features of  PBC but is negative for AMA in serum (Gut 1997; 30: 44042). The AMA are directed against the mitochondrial pyruvate  dehydrogenase complex. Histology Non-suppurative destructive cholangitis or granulomatous cholangitis. Is liver biopsy necessary to confirm the diagnosis? Although liver biopsy is routinely used to confirm the diagnosis, the need for this procedure for either diagnosis or prognosis is  questionable (Lancet 1997; 350: 875-9). The very close association between histology and E2 AMA in PBC means that liver  histology is not required unless clinical and serological features are equi-vocal. The presence of cirrhosis is of very little value in  determining the prognosis, and clinically significant portal hypertension (ascites, variceal haemorrhage) may occur during the early  histological stages. What is the mechanism for itching in these patients? The itching used to be ascribed to retention of bile acids with cholestasis, but recent work has emphasized the importance of  naturally occurring opioid tone charac-terized by an increase in the concentration of endogenous opioid receptors and upregulation  of opioid receptors (Gut 1996; 38: 644-5). These findings have led to the use of opioid antagonists for treatment of pruritus. What drugs have been used to control pruritus? Colestyramine is first line, rifampicin and ursodeoxycholic acid are second line, and naloxone, nalmefene and propofol are third line  agents used to treat pruritus. What drugs have been used to treat this condition? Ursodeoxycholic acid, corticosteroids, ciclosporin, azathioprine, tacrolimus, methotrexate, colchicines. What is the rationale behind bile salt therapy? Hepatocytes affected by autoimmune processes are further injured by endogenous bile acids (such as chenodeoxycholic acid and  cholic acid) which accumulate due to associated cholestasis. Partial replacement of water-soluble bile acids such as  ursodeoxycholic acid may reduce pruritus and damage to the liver cell. Is there a cure for primary biliary cirrhosis? Liver transplantation is the only known cure. Five-year survival following trans-plantation exceeds 80%. It is associated with a rapid  resolution of lethargy and itching, and bone loss slows after the first year. Although the quality of life is not normal, it is usually  excellent. 
When is liver transplantation indicated? Indications for liver transplantation are either symptoms (e.g. intractable pruritus, lethargy) or signs and symptoms of end-stage liver  disease: increasing jaundice with serum bilirubin >170 gmol/1, estimated survival less than one year, intractable ascites,  encephalopathy, fasting serum albumin <30 g/l, progressive muscle loss, recurrent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, increasing  osteoporosis, hepato-pulmonary syndrome, early, incidental hepatocellular carcinoma and unacceptable quality of life. What factors predict survival after transplantation ? Serum urea and albumin, presence of ascites, Child's grade, and United Network for Organ Sharing Status (reflecting whether the  patient is at home, in a general hospital bed or intensive care unit) are predictors of survival after transplantation (Hepatology 1997;  25: 672-7). What do you understand by secondary biliary cirrhosis? It is that which occurs secondary to large duct obstruction and is usually due to extrahepatic obstruction such as bile duct stricture,  gallstones or sclerosing cholangitis. Professor Peter Brunt, contemporary gastroenterologist and liver physician, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, is also the personal physician  to the Queen and is an astute clinician. He is the President of the Association of Physicians of Great Britain, a society founded by  Osier. Roger Williams, Professor at King's College, London, and Sir Roy Calne, Professor of Surgery, Cambridge, pioneered liver  transplantation in the UK. 
Thomas E. Starzl, surgeon, Pittsburgh, USA, is an internationally known pioneer in liver I transplantation. 
· History of consanguinity. ·       In young adult or child - hepatitis, haemolytic anaemia, portal hypertension or neuropsychiatric abnormalities. ·       In adolescents - presents as liver disease. ·       In adults <40 years of age consider chronic or fulminant hepatitis. 
Examination Greenish yellow to golden-brown pigmentation at the limbus of the cornea, called the Kayser-Fleischer ring. The ring is most marked  at the superior and inferior poles of the cornea and is due to the deposition of copper in Descemet's membrane in the cornea. (It is  often apparent only on slit-lamp examination. It may be absent in patients with hepatic manifestations only but is present in those  with neuropsychiatric disease.) Proceed as follows: Look for the following: ·       Jaundice (look at the sclera). ·       Sunflower cataracts. ·       Hepatomegaly. ·       Signs of liver cell failure. ·       Neurological manifestations - tremor, chorea, mask-like facies with a vacuous smile.DIAGNOSISThis patient has a classical Kayser-Fleischer ring with jaundice and hepatomegaly (lesions) due to Wilson's disease (aetiology) and  does not have a hepatic flap (functional status).ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSIs Kayser-Fleischer ring pathognomonic of Wilson's disease ? No, it is also seen in primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis, cryptogenic cirrhosis and long-standing  intrahepatic cirrhosis of childhood. At what age do the neurological manifestations usually manifest? They usually appear between 12 and 30 years of age. The most frequent first neurological symptom is difficulty in speaking or  writing while in school. What do you know about the inheritance of the disease? Autosomal recessive inheritance; the gene ATP7B is located on chromosome 13, often associated with a family history of  consanguinity. The disease is caused by mutations encoding a copper-transporting P-type ATPase (Wilson's disease protein,  WNDP). Approximately 27 mutations have been reported; the most common, His1069Gln, is present in about a third of the patients  of European extraction. What do you know about the pathophysiology of this disease? The precise detect is not known. The major aberration is excessive absorption of copper from the small intestine with decreased  excretion of copper by the liver, resulting in an increase in tissue deposition, particularly in the brain, cornea, liver and kidney. The  animal models of this condition are the Long-Evans cinnamon rat and the toxic milk mouse, which are currently undergoing  evaluation to determine the precise detect in Wilson's disease. What are the biochemical changes in Wilson's disease? · Low serum caeruloplasmin level (caeruloplasmin is the copper-carrying protein). · Serum copper concentration may be high, low or  normal. 
·       Orally administered radiolabelled copper is incorporated into caeruloplasmin. ·       Increased urinary excretion of copper. How is the diagnosis of a suspected case confirmed? By the demonstration of one of the following: ·       Kayser-Fleischer rings and a serum caeruloplasmin level lower than 20 mg/1. ·       Serum caeruloplasmin concentration of less than 200 mg/I and copper concen-tration in a liver biopsy sample greater than 250  
gg/g on a dry-weight basis. 
How would you treat such a patient? Penicillamine removes and detoxifies deposits of copper. Treatment is lifelong and continuous. What are the clinical stages of Wilson's disease? Wilson's disease progresses through four clinical stages: 
·       Stage I: characterized by asymptomatic accumulation of copper in the liver which begins when the patient is born. *      Stage II: the patient is either asymptomatic or manifests with haemolytic anaemia or liver failure. ·       Stage Ill: copper accumulates in the brain. ·       Stage IV: progressive neurological disease. Samuel Alexander Kinnier Wilson (1877-1937) qualified in Edinburgh and worked at the National Hospital, Queen Square, London,  as a neurologist (Wilson SAK 1912 Progressive lenticular degeneration. A familial nervous disease associated with cirrhosis of liver.  Brain 34: 295). Bernard Kayser (1869-1954) and Bruno Fleischer, both German ophthalmologists, described the same condition in 1902 and 1903  respectively. 
·       Fatigue (due to anaemia). ·       Night sweats, low-grade fever (due to hypermetabolic state caused by over-production of WBCs in chronic myeloid leukaemia,  
CML). 
·       Abdominal fullness (due to splenomegaly). ·       Bleeding, bone pain (myeloproliferative disorders due to bone marrow infiltration). 
·       History of leukaemia. ·       History of myelofibrosis. ·       History of residence in endemic areas of malaria, kala-azar. ·       Family history of Gaucher's disease. ·       History of fever (infectious mononucleosis, infective endocarditis). ·       Blurred vision, respiratory distress, priapism (due to leukostasis in CML). ·       Occasionally transverse myelitis (due to myelopoiesis in epidural space). Examination · Massive spleen. There may be associated anaemia. ·       Start low while examining for the spleen and be gentle during palpation. Even if you are certain it is the spleen, you must go  
through the motions of ruling out a palpable kidney: do a bimanual palpation and check for ballottement; feel for the splenic  notch; auscultate for splenic rub. 
Proceed as follows: · Look for enlarged lymph nodes and anaemia. ·       Remember that the spleen must be at least two or three times its usual size before it can be felt. ·       Remember that, normally, the spleen does not extend beyond the anterior axillary line and lies along the 9th, 10th and 1 lth  
ribs. The spleen percussion sign is a useful diagnostic technique (Ann Intern Med 1967; 67: 1265). 
Myeloproliferative disorder: · Myelofibrosis, particularly in males. · Chronic myeloid leukaemia, particularly in females. How would you confirm your diagnosis? Bone marrow examination.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSIn which other conditions is a massive spleen palpable? · Malaria. ·  Kala-azar. 
· Gaucher's disease. In which conditions is a moderately enlarged spleen (two to four finger-breadths or 4-8 cm) felt? · Portal hypertension secondary to cirrhosis. ·       Lymphoproliferative disorders such as Hodgkin's disease and chronic lymphatic leukaemia. 
In which common conditions would the spleen be just palpable? · Lymphoproliferative disorders. · Portal hypertension secondary to cirrhosis. · Infectious hepatitis. · Glandular fever (infectious mononucleosis). · Subacute endocarditis. ·       Sarcoid, rheumatoid arthritis, collagen disease, idiopathic thrombocytopenia, congenital spherocytosis and polycythaemia rubra  
vera. 
·       Slender young women (Ann Intern Mod 1967; 66: 301). What do you know about the genetics of chronic myelocytic leukaemia?  The fusion of c-ab/ (normally present on chromosome 9) with bcr sequences on chromosome 22 is pathognomonic of  the chronic phase of chronic myelocytic leukaemia (the Philadelphia chromosome). The p53 gene appears to be the culprit in cases  of myeloid blast transformation and there are structural alterations of RB1or N-ras in less than 10% of the cases with myeloid blast  crisis. What do you understand about the terms 'myeloid metaplasia' and extramedullary haematopoiesis'? 'Myeloid metaplasia' and 'extramedullary haematopoiesis' are used interchange-ably. They describe the process of ectopic  haematopoietic activity that may occur in any organ system but predominantly affects the liver and spleen. It may or may not be  associated with bone marrow fibrosis (myelofibrosis). The term 'myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia' is usually used to describe  idiopathic myelofibrosis or agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (N Engl J Mod 2000; 342: 1255-65). What do you understand by the term 'chronic myeloid disorders'? Chronic myeloid disorders include: ·       Chronic myeloid leukaemia. ·       Myelodysplastic syndrome. ·       Atypical chronic myeloid disorder. ·       Chronic myeloproliferative disease: polycythaemia vera, essential thrombo-cythaemia, myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.  
Essential thrombocythaemia in turn includes agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, post-polycythaemic myeloid metaplasia and  post-thrombocythaemic myeloid metaplasia. 
What is the treatment of Gaucher's disease? Enzyme replacement therapy with glucocerebrosidase (alglucerase) is beneficial (N Engl J Mod 1991; 324: 1464-70; N Engl J Mod  1992; 327: 1632-6). P.C.E. Gaucher (1854-1918), Professor of Dermatology in France. Sir David Weatherall, FRS, contemporary Regius Professor of Medicine, Oxford, who  has  the unique distinction of being both a  molecular biologist and an astute clinician. The 1902 Nobel Prize was awarded to Sir Donald Ross (1857-1932; born in Almora, India), University of Liverpool, for his work on  malaria, in which he showed how it enters the organism and thereby laid the foundation for successful research on this disease and  methods of combating it. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's abdomen. SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Fever, weight loss. ·       Rheumatoid arthritis. ·       Leg ulcers, hyperpigmentation. Examination 
· Mild to moderate splenomegaly. · Rheumatoid arthritis. Proceed as follows: Look for the following signs: ·       Anaemia. ·       Vasculitis. ·       Diffuse pigmentation. ·       Leg ulcers. DIAGNOSIS This patient has moderate splenomegaly with rheumatoid arthritis (lesions) due to Felty's syndrome. ADVANCED LEVEL QUESTIONS What is Felty's syndrome? It is a rare complication of rheumatoid arthritis in which there is leukopenia with selective neutropenia and splenomegaly. The bone  marrow is typically hyperplastic. The disease typically manifests late in the course of 'burnt-out' joint disease. The prognosis is poor  because of recurrent Gram-positive infections. The 'large granular lymphocyte syndrome', a pre-malignant disorder of the T  lymphocyte, may mimic Felty's syndrome in rheumatoid arthritis. 
Note. Splenectomy does not prevent sepsis and may hasten the onset of malignancy. 
What do you understand by the term 'hypersplenism'? It implies removal of erythrocytes, granulocytes or platelets from the circulation by the spleen. Removal of the spleen is indicated  when the underlying disorder cannot be corrected. 
Criteria for hypersplenism include the following: ·       Enlarged spleen. ·       Destruction of one or more cell lines in the spleen. ·       Normal bone marrow. What are the indications for splenectomy? ·        Hereditary spherocytosis in children. ·        Autoimmune thrombocytopenia or haemolytic anaemia not controlled by steroids. ·       To ameliorate hypersplenism in Gaucher's disease, thalassaemia, hairy cell leukaemia. ·       Symptoms due to massive organomegaly. What are the characteristic cells in a peripheral blood smear following splenectomy ? The presence of Howell-Jolly bodies (in all), siderocytes and spur cells (in 25% of patients). What are the causes of asplenia? Causes of asplenia include: ·       Diminished function: sickle cell disease, thalassaemia, coeliac disease, SLE, lymphoma, leukaemia, amyloidosis. ·       Surgical removal: hereditary spherocytosis, thalassaemia, lymphoma, idiopathic thrombocytopenia, traumatic rupture. To which infections is the asplenic patient susceptible? ·       Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae B, Neisseria meningitidis and malaria parasites pose a significant risk. ·       Less common organisms include babesiasis, caused by tick-borne protozoa, and infection with Capnocytophaga canimorus  
following a dog bite. 
What precautions would you advise an asplenic patient in the outpatient clinic? Vaccination · Pneumococcal vaccine - a single injection; booster doses at 5-10-year intervals. · Hib vaccine - a single dose at the same time as  pneumococcal immunization. ·       Meningococcus groups A and C vaccine (although the majority of infections are due to group B strains for which there is no  
vaccine of proven efficacy). 
Antibiotic prophylaxis Phenoxymethylpenicillin or amoxicillin. Foreign travel Antimalarial chemoprophylaxis, other precautions (insect repellants, screens at night). Augustus R. Felty (1895-1964) was a physician at Hartford Hospital, Hartford, Connecticut. He described this syndrome while he  was working at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore. 
INSTRUCTION This patient gives a history of intermittent haematuria; obtain a brief' history and examine this patient's abdomen. SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Acute loin pain and/or haematuria (owing to haemorrhage into a cyst, cyst infection or urinary stone formation). ·       Loin or abdominal discomfort (due to increasing size of kidneys). ·       Family history of polycystic kidney disease (as the condition is autosomal dominant with nearly 100% penetrance). ·       Complications of hypertension. ·       Stroke (due to ruptured berry aneurysm). ·       Family history of brain aneurysm (the prevalence of intracranial aneurysms increases from 5% to 20% when there is a family  
history). 
Examination ·       Arteriovenous fistulas in the arms or subclavian dialysis catheter (remember that in the UK polycystic kidneys constitute the  
third most common cause for chronic renal failure after glomerulonephritis and pyelonephritis). 
·       Palpable kidneys (confirm by bimanual palpation and ballottement; there is a resonant note on percussion due to overlying  
colon; the hand can get between the swelling and the costal margin). 
Proceed as follows: ·       Look for the following signs: -Enlarged liver due to cystic disease. -Transplanted kidney may be palpable in either iliac fossa. -Third nerve palsy (berry aneurysms are associated with polycystic kidneys). -Look for anaemia (due to chronic renal failure) or  polycythaemia (due to 
increased erythropoiesis). 
-       Check the blood pressure (hypertension develops in 75% of cases). · Tell the examiner that you would like to investigate as follows: -Look at the ECG for left ventricular hypertrophy (it appears that LVH occurs to a greater degree for a given rise in blood pressure in  
ADPKD compared with other renal disorders and with essential hypertension). 
-       Microscopic haematuria. Remember. Polycystic kidney disease is a misnomer as it is a systemic disorder affecting many organs. 
fistula in the arm functional status). 
Read: N Engl J Med 1993; 329: 332. 
Haematuria, hypertension, urinary tract infection, pain m the lumbar region, uraemic symptoms, subarachnoid haemorrhage  associated with berry aneurysm, and complications of associated liver cysts. Is the kidney involvement usually unilateral or bilateral? The disease is universally bilateral; unilateral cases reported probably represent multicystic renal dysplasia.ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONSWhat do you know about the prevalence of this disease? Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is one of the most common hereditary disorders, being 10 times more  common than sickle cell disease, 15 times more common than cystic fibrosis and 20 times more common than Huntington's disease.  It has a worldwide distribution. In the white population the disease appears to occur in about 1 in 400 to 1 in 1000 people (Acta Med  Scand 1957; 328: 1-255). Although the disease is rare in Africa and less common in American blacks than whites, the incidence of  end-stage renal disease due to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is similar in blacks and whites. ADPKD is an  important cause of renal failure with 77% of patients dying or reaching end-stage renal disease by the age of 70 years (Kidney lnt  1992; 41:1311-19). In which other conditions may bilateral renal cysts be observed in an ultrasonographic study? Multiple simple cysts, autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease in children, tuberous sclerosis and von Hippel-Lindau  syndrome. 
What are the criteria for diagnosis of polycystic kidney disease using ultrasonography ? The presence of at least two renal cysts (unilateral or bilateral) in individuals at risk and younger than 30 years may be regarded as  sufficient to establish a diagnosis; among those aged 30-59 years the presence of at least two cysts in each kidney; and among  those aged 60 years and above at least four cysts in each kidney should be required (Lancet 1994; 343: 824-7). How would you like to manage this patient? ·        FBC, urea and electrolytes, serum creatinine, urine microscopy, urine culture. ·       Ultrasonography of the kidneys to confirm the diagnosis. Ultrasound may be equivocal in subjects under the age of 20 years. ·       Contrast-enhanced spiral CT head scan or MRI as a screening test for intracranial aneurysms in patients aged 18-40 years and  
with a family history of intracranial aneurysms or subarachnoid haemorrhage (N Engl J Med 1992; 327: 953-5). 
In which other organs are cysts seen in this condition? Liver (in 30% of cases), spleen, pancreas, lungs, ovaries, testes, epididymis, thyroid, uterus, broad ligament and bladder. What are the neurological manifestations of this condition? Subarachnoid haemorrhage from an intracranial berry aneurysm, causing death or neurological lesions in about 9% of patients.  About 8% of patients with ADPKD have an asymptomatic intracranial aneurysm; the prevalence is twice as high in those with a  family history of such aneurysms or of subarachnoid haemorrhage. What is the pathology? Cysts develop in Bowman's capsule and at other levels in the nephron, displacing kidney tissue. What cardiovascular manifestations have been reported in these patients? · Mitral valve prolapse in 26%. · Other lesions commonly seen are mitral, aortic and tricuspid valve regurgitation. What are the renal manifestations of this disease? ·       The main structural change is the formation of cysts. Cysts enlarge, lose their tubular connection and become isolated from the  
glomerulus, requiring trans-epithelial transport of solutes and fluids for further expansion. Cyst fluids have different  compositions, some having high and others low sodium concentration. 
·       One of the earliest and most consistent functional abnormalities is a decrease in renal concentrating ability. ·       There may be altered endocrine function as reflected by increased secretion of both renin (causing increased predilection to  
hypertension) and erythropoietin (resulting in better maintained haematocrit in renal failure, unlike in renal failure due to other  causes: rarely can result in polycythaemia). 
What are the causes of abdominal pain in this disease? Infected cyst, haemorrhage into cyst or diverticular perforation. What are the complications of polycystic kidney disease? Renal complications ·       Hypertension (intrarenal activation of the renin-angiotensin system is said to be the main mechanism and hence ACE inhibitors  
are first line agents to control blood pressure). 
·       Pain back pain or abdominal pain. (Cyst decompression may help to relieve pain but does not alter the rate of progression.) ·       Gross or microscopic haematuria. ·       Cyst infection (lipophilic antibiotics against Gram-negative bacteria such as cotrimoxazole, fluoroquinolones penetrate the cysts  
better and are preferred to standard antibacterial agents). 
·       Renal calculi (seen in 10-20% of patients with ADPKD; are frequently radiolucent and composed of uric acid) ·       Urinary tract infection including pyelonephritis. ·       Proteinuria. 
·       Renal failure (once the GFR falls below 50 mi/minute the rate of progression is more rapid than in other primary renal disorders  
and is about 5 mi/minute every year). About one half of the patients have normal life with adequate renal function. 
Extrarenal manifestations ·       Cystic: cysts in the liver, ovary, pancreas, spleen and central nervous system. Unlike renal cyst formation, liver cysts seem to  
be influenced by female hor-mones. Whilst men and women have the same frequency of liver cysts, massive liver cysts are  almost exclusively found in women. 
·       Non-cystic: -Cardiac valvular abnormalities mitral valve prolapse (seen in -20% of 
patients with ADPKD), aortic valve abnormalities. 
-Intracranial saccular aneurysm or berry aneurysm. Magnetic resonance angio-graphy is the most reliable technique of non-invasive  
screening among such patients. 
· Gastrointestinal - colonic diverticula, hernias of the anterior abdominal wall. What do you know about the genetic transmission of this disease? Polycystic kidney disease is an autosomal dominant disorder. Mutations in at least three different genes can lead to autosomal  dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). The PKD1 gene is located on chromosome 16 (Cell 1994; 77: 8814). The protein  product of PKD1, polycystin-l, is an integral membrane glycoprotein involved in cell-to-cell and/or cell-to-matrix interaction (J Am Soc  
Nephrol 1995: 6:1125-33). The PKD2 gene is situated on chromosome 4 and its protein product is similar to the alphal subunit of  voltage-activated calcium and sodium channels, suggesting a related role for polycystin-2 (Science 1996; 272: 133942). The  poly-cystins interact through their C-terminal cytoplasmic tails which suggests that PKDIand PKD2 may function through a common  signalling pathway (Nat Genet 1997; 16: 179-83). At least one other gene containing mutations that lead to ADPKD is known to exist;  its chromosomal location is not known. 
Among the European ADPKD population, PKD1is the cause in about 85% of families and PKD2 the cause in about 15%.  
Compared with individuals affected by PKD2, those with PKDI have more severe disease with a higher prevalence of hypertension,  an increased risk of progression into renal failure and shorter life expectancy. Although PKD2is clinically milder than PKDI it has a  deleterious impact on overall life expectancy and cannot be regarded as a benign disorder (Lancet 1999: 353: 103-7). What do you know about screening in this condition? ·       The children and siblings of patients with established ADPKD should be offered screening. ·       Affected individuals should have their blood pressure checked regularly and offered genetic counselling. ·       Genetic linkage analysis can be utilized in many families. Ultrasound is usually not useful before the age of 20 years. What are the poor prognostic factors in ADPKD? Patients are liable to progress more rapidly if they are male, or have polycystin-I mutations, early onset hypertension, episodes of  gross haematuria (J Am Soc 
Nephrol 1997; 8: 1560-7), or family history of hypertension in the unaffected patient (JAm Soc Nephrol 1995; 6: 1643-8), but these  only account for a fraction of the variability of disease progression. What are the causes of death in these patients? One third of adult patients die from renal failure; another third die from the com-plications of hypertension (including heart disease,  intracerebral haemorrhage and rupture of berry aneurysm). The remaining third die from unrelated causes. Sir W. Bowman (1816-1892), Surgeon at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital.E.L. Potter (1901-),US pathologist. She also described Potter's syndrome with renal agenesis and characteristic of epicanthic folds,  receding jaw and Iow set ears with less cartilage than usual. O.Z. Dalgaard's study in 1957 clarified the autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance of the disease. 
·       History of chronic renal failure - determine duration, aetiology (diabetes, hyper-tension, glomerulonephritis). ·       History of haemodialysis. ·       History of arteriovenous fistula. ·       History of transplanted kidney. Examination · Laparotomy scar (comment on the scar). · Arteriovenous fistulas in arms. · Transplanted kidney felt in either right or left iliac fossa. Proceed as follows: ·       Tell the examiner that you would like to look for other signs of uraemia (see pp 585-8). ·       Do know the differential diagnosis for masses in the right/left iliac fossa (see p. 331). 
bedside (aetiology).QUESTIONSMention a few indications for renal transplantation. End-stage renal diseases; the most common diseases that result in referral of patients for transplantation include: ·       Diabetes mellitus with renal failure. ·       Hypertensive renal disease. ·       Glomerulonephritis. 
Referral for renal transplantation need not be delayed until the patient has begun dialysis. It is acceptable and, in fact, usually  preferable to refer the patient to a renal transplant unit before dialysis is required. With judicious planning on the part of the general  practitioner, renal physician and transplant surgical team, transplantation can be performed before dialysis is even required. In which age group is transplantation preferred to dialysis? Infants and children have a high morbidity rate on long-term haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Thus, renal transplantation from  parents or siblings improves growth and allows a more normal lifestyle. Is there any advantage to HLA matching before transplantation? Kidneys from living related donors who are HLA identical and also red blood cell ABe matched have a 90% survival rate at 1 year;  less well matched grafts tend to have a somewhat lower survival rate. Kidney transplants from matched cadaver donors survive  nearly as long, especially if the recipient does not contain antibodies to donor antigens. 
There is some evidence that HLA mismatching has a greater effect on living related than it does on cadaveric donor kidney  
transplantation. Recent evidence has shown that HLA-matched kidneys, particularly for DR, B and A antigens, are associated with  long-term survival of the patient. Complete matching of DR, B and A loci is associated with the best chance of success. HLA-DR  matching appears to have the greatest impact on survival, followed by B, and lastly the A loci (N Engl J Med 1994; 331: 803-5). Should repeated blood transfusions be avoided in a patient waiting for a renal transplant? If the anaemia is well tolerated and is due to the renal failure per se, blood trans-fusion should be avoided as it carries a risk of HLA  sensitization. Pretreatment of recipients with multiple blood transfusions from the donor tends to increase graft survival, in contrast  to the deleterious effect on bone marrow engraftment. 
What other factors are known to cause sensitization to HLA antigens? Pregnancy, previously failed transplant. What drugs are used for post-transplant immunosuppression? Steroids, azathioprine and ciclosporin used independently or in combination. Newer drugs include FK 506, rapamycin, sirolimus,  mycophenolate mofetil, and daclizumab. What are the contraindications for kidney transplantation ? ·       A positive cross-match by cytotoxicity testing between recipient serum and donor cells is considered to be a contraindication for  
transplantation. 
·       Presence of HIV or other infectious agents on donor screening. What are the complications of renal transplantation? · Opportunistic infection, e.g. cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis. · Premature coronary artery disease. · Hypertension primarily to ciclosporin. · Lymphomas and skin cancers. · De novo glomerulonephritis in the transplanted kidney. · Complications of steroid therapy, e.g. aseptic necrosis of bone. What do you know about warm ischaemic time? Shorter warm ischaemic time of the transplanted kidney is associated with longer survival of the recipient. However, a slight increase  in the duration of cold ischaemia justifies HLA-matching before kidney transplantation because of higher rates of survival, a lower  incidence of the episodes of rejection and lower risk of loss as a result of rejection (N Engl J Med 2000; 343:1078 84). What is the survival rate following kidney transplant? The 2-year kidney graft survival rate for living related donor transplantation is 85%, whereas in cadaveric donor transplantation it is  about 70%. What do you know about rejection of the transplanted kidney? It may be acute or chronic and must be suspected when the graft is tender, the urine output is falling or the creatinine concentration  is rising. It is a complex process in which both cell-mediated immunity and circulating antibodies play a role. Evaluation of suspected  rejection usually requires graft biopsy. ·       Acute rejection is characterized by a lymphocytic interstitial infiltrate with destruction of epithelial cells. It usually responds to  
treatment which includes high-dose methyl prednisolone, antilymphocytic globulin and anti-T-lymphocyte monoclonal antibody  (OKT3) administration. 
·       Chronic rejection shows histological features of interstitial fibrosis, atrophy of tubules and proliferation of the arterial intima.  
There is no specific treatment and general management of chronic renal failure should be reinstituted. 
Is there any advantage of renal transplantation as compared to long-term dialysis in end-stage renal disease? The benefits of renal transplantation include better quality of life (Am J Kid Dis l990 15 901-8), reduced medical expenses (semi,  Ncphro[ 1999; 12. 98d-9) and about a 68% reduction in the long-term risk of death (N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 1725-30). 
failure? Pancreas transplantation in type I diabetes can reverse the lesions of diabetic nephropathy but reversal requires  more than 5 years of normoglycaemia (N Engl J Med 1998; 339: 69-75). Simultaneous pancreas-kidney  transplantation prolongs survival in patients with diabetes and end-stage renal failure (Lancet1999; 353: 1915-19). Does acute myocardial infarction influence long-term survival among patients on long-term dialysis? Patients on dialysis who have an acute myocardial infarction have high mortality from cardiac causes and poor  long-term survival (N Engl J Med 1998: 339: 799-8O5).In the 1920s, Alexis Carrel developed the technique of vascular anastomoses which made possible David Hume's and Joseph Murray's human  allograft attempts in the early 1950s. Joseph E. Murray (1919-), Professor of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, was awarded the 1990 Nobel Prize for  Medicine for his pioneering work on organ transplantation along with Thomas E. Donnall (1920-) of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Centre,  Seattle, Washington, USA (Murray JE, et al. Prolonged survival of human-kidney homografts by immunosuppressive drug therapy. N Engl J Med 1963;  268:1315-23). In 1966, Terasaki and co-workers reported the association between HLA matching and outcome in patients receiving cadaveric organs (Ann N YAcad  Sci 1966; 129: 500-20). The observation by Schwartz and Damasheck that 6-mercaptopurine was effective in blocking primary but not secondary antibody response in rabbits  paved the way for drug-induced immunosuppression in the late 1950s (Nature 1959; 183: 1682-3). 
This patient presented with low back pain; examine the abdomen.SALIENT FEATURESHistory ·           Remember, three quarters of the patients are asymptomatic. ·           Vague abdominal pain. ·           History of embolization. ·           Family history of rupture of abdominal aneurysm. ·           History of smoking. 
·       Large expansile pulsation along the course of the abdominal aorta. ·       Auscultate for bruit over the aneurysm and over the femoral pulses. ·       'Trash' foot - digital infarcts in patient with easily palpable pulses (suggests either a popliteal or abdominal aneurysmal source  
of emboli) (BMJ 2000; 320:1193-6). 
·       Examine all peripheral pulses. Proceed as follows: ·       Tell the examiner that you would like to check the following: - Urine for sugar. - Blood pressure. - Serum cholesterol. ·       Remember that: -Popliteal artery aneurysms often coexist and, in fact, their presence should 
prompt the physician to look for an abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
-Ninety per cent of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysms are present below the origin of the renal arteries and can involve the aortic bifurcation. -The infrarenal aorta is normally 2 cm in diameter; when it  exceeds 4 cm an 
aneurysm is said to exist. 
-True arterial aneurysms are defined as a 50% increase in the normal diameter of the vessel. 
The aneurysmal process may affect any medium or large sized artery. 
-The vessels most commonly affected are the aorta and iliac arteries, followed 
by popliteal, femoral and carotid arteries. 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has a large pulsatile mass in the epigastrium (lesion) due to an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta (aetiology). 
Read classic reviews on this subject: N Engl J Med 1993; 328:1167; BMJ 2000; 320:1193-6. 
QUESTIONS Which investigations would you perform to confirm your diagnosis? ·       B mode ultrasonography of the abdomen - a simple, cheap and accurate screening test. ·       Large aneurysms require angiography. 
·       Magnetic resonance imaging is useful, particularly as it does not require admin-istration of contrast. ·       Remember that plain abdominal radiography shows a calcified aneurysmal aortic wall in only half the cases. ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS How would you manage an abdominal aneurysm? ·       Pooled data suggest that aortic aneurysms of more than 55 mm carry a high risk of rupture and hence should be referred to the  
vascular surgeon for surgery if there are no confounding factors that increase the risk of surgery. 
·       The UK small aneurysm trial studied 1090 patients with an aortic diameter of 40-50 mm and found a 30-day mortality of 5.8%,  
mean annual risk of rupture for small aneurysms of 1%, and no difference in survival between the treatment groups at two, four  or six years (Lancet 1998; 352: 1649-55). Smaller aneurysms must be followed up; they enlarge at a rate of about 0.5 cma  year. In selected cases an endovascular prosthesis is preferred. 
What factors predispose to rupture of the abdominal aneurysm? · Diameter of the aneurysm. · History of smoking. · Diastolic blood pressure. · COAD. · Family history of ruptured aneurysm. · Rate of expansion. · Inflammatory aneurysms. What is the prognosis of aneurysms greater than 55 mm? The mortality rate for a patient undergoing elective surgery is less than 5%, whereas that for a ruptured aneurysm is nearly 90%. In 1951, C. Dubost from Paris performed the first successful aortic resection for aneurysm. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's abdomen. SALIENT FEATURES History ·       Nephrectomy. ·       Congenital absence of kidney. ·       History of azotaemia, dialysis. Examination One kidney is palpable (bimanually ballottable; there is a transverse band of colonic resonance on percussion and you will be able to  insinuate your fingers between the mass and costal margin). Proceed as follows: Look carefully for arteriovenous fistulas in the arms, haemodialysis catheters in the subclavian region. 
(aetiology).QUESTIONSWhat are the common causes of a palpable kidney? · Polycystic kidney disease. · Renal carcinoma. · Hydronephrosis. · Renal cyst. · Hypertrophy of the solitary functioning kidney. What changes can occur in a kidney when the other is removed? Long-term renal function remains stable in most patients with a reduction in renal mass of more than 50%. However, these patients  are at increased risk for proteinuria, glomerulopathy and progressive renal failure. Hence it is important to monitor patients with  remnant kidneys. Problems are most frequent in those in whom the amount of renal tissue removed is greatest and who have  
survived the longest (N Engl J Med 1991; 325: 1058). Leon Fine, contemporary Professor and Chair of Medicine, University College Hospital, London. Graeme Catto, contemporary Professor of Renal Medicine and Dean, Aberdeen Medical School. H.A. Lee, retired Professor of Renal Medicine, Portsmouth, University of Southampton, who is also interested in metabolism. 
The patient has an epigastric mass. Differential diagnosis: ·       carcinomaof the stomach: look for supraclavicular lymph nodes, hepatomegaly: comment on pallor and asthenia. ·       Carcinoma of the pancreas: look for jaundice. 
·       Aneurysm of the abdominal aorta: look for pulsatile mass; check femoral and foot pulses; auscultate over the mass and the  
Iemoral pulses (see p. 328). 
·       Retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy (lymphoma). Patient 2 The patient has a mass in the right lilac fossa. Differential diagnosis: ·       Crohn's disease: look for mouth ulcers; tell the examiner that you would like to look for fistulas and take a history for chronic  
diarrhoea (see p. 575). 
·       Carcinoma of the caecum: look for hard mass, lymph nodes. ·       Look for lymph nodes elsewhere (see pp 569-71); feel for liver and spleen: examine the drainage area of iliac lymph nodes  
(such as the leg, perianal area, external genitalia; do a rectal examination). 
·       Transplanted kidney: comment on the laparotomy scars, stigmata of renal failure and artificial arteriovenous fistulas. ·       Appendicular abscess. · lleocaecal abscess, particularly in Asians. ·       Ovarian tumours (must be mentioned as a differential diagnosis in female patients). Less common causes of masses in the right iliac fossa: · Amoebiasis. · Carcinoid (ileal). · Actinomycosis. · Ectopic kidney. Patient 3 The patient has a mass in the left lilac fossa. Differential diagnosis: ·       Diverticular abscess: look for a tender, mobile mass. ·       Carcinoma of the colon: look lor hepatomegaly; tell the examiner that you would like to do a per rectum examination. ·       Faecal mass (the mass may be moulded by pressure). ·       Ovarian tumour (in females). ·       Iliac lymph nodes: look for other lymph nodes, liver and spleen; examine the drainage areas. ·       Transplanted kidney: comment on the laparotomy scar, look for signs of renal failure, arteriovenous fistulas (see pp 603-5). Note. The investigation of first choice in such patients is abdominal ultrasonography. Robin Warren, Pathologist at Royal Perth Hospital in Western Australia, and Barry J. Marshall discovered that Helicobacter pylori  causes peptic ulcer disease (Lancet 1983;  i:  1273-5). In 1984, Marshall infected himself by drinking a pure culture of H. pylori. After  feeling fine for 5 days he experienced nausea and vomiting. Histology confirmed acute gastritis. In 1995 he received the Albert  Lasker Clinical Medical Research Award. H. pylori has also been implicated in the causation of gastric cancer in Japanese people. 
Examine the thyroid. Test this patient's thyroid status. Look at this patient's neck. SALIENT FEATURES 1.  Introduce yourself to the patient and, while shaking hands, note whether the palms  
are warm and sweaty. 
2. Inspection of the neck: ·    Look for the JVP. ·    Scars of surgery (often missed by candidates). ·    Enlarged cervical lymph nodes. ·    Goitre. 3. Palpation (always begin by palpating from behind): ·    Seat the patient comfortably. ·    Comment first on exophthalmos. ·    While palpating the gland, ensure that there is a glass of water to swallow. ·    Palpate the thyroid and note the following: - Size - specify the World Health  
Organization grade (see below).  -  Mobility.  -Texture  - simple or nodular (solitary or  multiple)? - Tenderness. 
·    Pemberton's sign (on raising the arms above the head, patients with retro-sternal  
goitres may develop signs of compressim, i.e. suffusion of the face, syncope or  giddiness). 
·    Palpate cervical lymph nodes. ·    Feel the carotid arteries. ·    Palpate for tracheal deviation. ·    Percuss for retrosternal extension. ·    Auscultate over the gland for bruit, carotid bruits. ·    Test sternomastoid function (this muscle m. ty be infiltrated in thyroid malignancy). 4. Thyroid function should then be assessed: · Eye signs: - Lid lag. - Exophthalmos. -Lid retraction (sclera visible above the cornea). - Extraocular movements. · Hands: 
-  Pulse for tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. - Tremor. 
                     -Acropachy or clubbing. -Palmar erythema (thyrotoxicosis). - Supinator jerks (inverted in hypothyrcidism). -Proximal weakness in the upper arm. · Skin: look for pretibial myxoedema. ·    Elicit the ankle jerks.      If you are permitted to ask questions, enquire about shortness of breath,  
dysphagia,           iodine-containing medications and possible exposure to radiation. 
QUESTIONS      How would you grade the size of the goitre? WHO grading of goitre (Lancet 2000; 355: 06-10):      Grade 0: No palpable or visible goitre. 
Grade 1: Palpable goitre (larger than terminal phalanges of examiner's thumbs). 
                             lA Goitre detectable only on pt lpation. 
                        lB Goitre palpable and visible with neck extended. 
     Grade 2: Goitre visible with neck in normal position.      Grade 3: Large goitre visible from a distance. What is the significance of the thyroid bruit? 
The thyroid bruit is almost pathognomonic of Graves' disease and occurs  only           rarely in patients with colloid goitres or other thyroid disorders. 
In 1915, Kendall isolated a crystalline product named thyroxine (Kendall EC 1915  
The isolation in crystalline form of the compound containing iodine which occurs in  the thyroid. JAMA 64: 2042). 
In 1927, Harrington and Barger synthesized thy-oxine (Harrington CR, Barger G 1927  
Chemistry of thyroxine. Biochem J 21: 169). 
In 1952, Gross and Pitt-Rivers identified tri-iodothyronine (Gross J, Pitt-Rivers R 1952  
The identification of 3,5,3' L-triiodothyronine ir human plasma. Lancet i: 439). 
In 1946, H.S. Pemberton described the sign of tile 'submerged' goitre (Pemberton HS  
1946 Sign of submerged goitre. Lancet251: 50!1). 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient. Determine this patient's thyroid status. SALIENT FEATURES Patient is fidgety and restless. Proceed as follows: History · Easy irritability, nervousness, insomnia. · Fatigue. · Weight loss with increased appetite. · Frequent defaecation. · Oligomenorrhoea. · Dislike for hot weather, heat intolerance, excessiv ,- sweating. · Palpitations, dyspnoea. · Family history of thyroid disease. · Proximal muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, periodic paralysis (particularly in patients of Oriental extraction). Examination Hands: · While shaking hands with the patient note the wa'm sweaty palms. ·    Look for tremor, thyroid acropachy, onycholysis Plummer's nails), vitiligo and  
palmar erythema. 
·    Check pulse (for tachycardia or the irregularly irregular pulse of atrial fibrillation). Eyes: · Comment on proptosis (after looking at the eyes t rom behind and above). · Check for lid lag. · Check for scars of previous tarsorrhaphy. Neck: · Mention previous thyroidectomy scar if present. · Examine the neck for goitre and auscultate over the gland. Chest: · Gynaecomastia can occur in men due to increased oestrogen production. ·    Examine the cardiovascular system: sinus tachycardia, widened pulse pressure,  
loud first heart sound, third heart sound, systolic murmur, atrial fibrillation. 
/div>  
Lower limbs: ·    Examine the shins for pretibial myxoedema (bilateral pinkish brown dermal  
plaques). 
·    Test for proximal myopathy with hyper-refiexia. Tell the examiner: That you would like to check for thyroid-stimulating antibodies, TsAb, which give near  
100ok detection rate in Graves' patients. 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has tremor, proptosis and lid lag (lesions) due to autoimmune Graves'  
disease (aetiology), and is in fast atrial fibrillation and hyperthyroid (functional  status). 
QUESTIONS How would you confirm the diagnosis in this patient? Serum thyroxine (T4), serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels and thyroid  
autoantibodies. 
What are the causes of hyperthyroidism? ·    Primary: Graves' disease, toxic nodule, multinodular goitre, Hashimoto's  
thyroiditis, iodine-induced, excess thyroid hormone replacement, postpartum  thyroiditis. 
·    Secondary: pituitary or excess TSH hypersecretion, hydatidiform mole, struma  
ovarii, factitious. 
What are the components of Graves' disease? Hyperthyroidism with goitre, eye changes and pretibial myxoedema - they run  
independent courses. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS What happens to radioactive iodine uptake in Graves' disease? Radioactive iodine uptake increases in Graves' disease. Which is the best laboratory test to diagnose hyperthyroidism? Serum TSH measurement is the single most reliable test to diagnose all common  
forms of hyperthyroidism, particularly in an outpatient setting (Arch Intern Meal  2000; 160: 1573-5). Typically, serum concentrations are less than 0.1 mIU/l in  Graves' disease, toxic adenoma, nodular goitre, subacute and lymphocytic (silent,  postpartum) thyroiditis, iodine-induced hyperthyroidism and exogenous thyroid  hormone excess. To diagnose hyperthyroidism accurately, TSH assay sensitivity,  the lowest reliably measured TSH concentration, must be 0.02 mlU/l or less. Some  
less sensitive TSH assays cannot reliably distinguish hyperthyroidism from  euthyroidism. Free T4 and T3 concentrations should be measured when less  sensitive TSH assays are utilized. In rare types of TSH-mediated hyperthyroidism  (pituitary adenomas and selective pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone) serum  TSH alone will not suffice and again free T4 and T3 concentrations should be  measured. 
What are the causes of isolated TSH suppression? · Mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism. · Recovery from overt hyperthyroidism. · Non-thyroidal illness (which can cause a low serum free 3?4). · Pregnancy during the first trimester. · Medications such as dopamine and glucocorticoids. Mention a few causes of hyperthyroidism with reduced iodine uptake. · Thyroiditis. · Malignancy of thyroid. · Struma ovarii. What drugs are used in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis? · Carbimazole. · Methimazole. · Propylthiouracil. What are the disadvantages of antithyroid drugs? · High rates of relapse once treatment is discontinued. · Occasionally complicated by troublesome hypersensitivity reaction and very 
p class=MsoNormal style='mso-margin-top-alt:auto;margin-right:-2.0cm;  margin-left:1.0cm;text-align:left;text-indent:-14.2pt;mso-pagination:none; tab-stops:right  389.85pt 496.15pt 503.25pt 531.6pt 574.1pt 581.2pt;mso-layout-grid-align:  none;text-autospace:none;direction:ltr;unicode-bidi:embed'>rarely by life-threatening  agranulocytosis and hepatitis.  
What are the advantages and disadvantages of radioactive iodine, compared  
with partial thyroidectomy for thyrotoxicosis? 
Both radioactive iodine therapy and surgical thyroidectomy are extremely effective  
and usually result in permanent cure. Patients will require lifelong thyroxine  replacement. Thyroid surgery is expensive, inconvenient and occasionally  com-plicated by injury to surrounding structures in the neck in less skilled hands,  and by the risks of anaesthesia. In Graves' disease the indications for surgery  include: a large goitre, the patient's preference, drug non-compliance and disease  relapse when radioiodine is not available. 
p class=MsoNormal style='mso-margin-top-alt:auto;margin-right:-2.0cm;  margin-left:1.0cm;text-align:left;text-indent:-14.2pt;mso-pagination:none; tab-stops:right  389.85pt 496.15pt 503.25pt 531.6pt 574.1pt 581.2pt;mso-layout-grid-align:  none;text-autospace:none;direction:ltr;unicode-bidi:embed'>Radioactive iodine, although  safe, may not be acceptable to patients who are sensitive to the calamities of Chernobyl  and Hiroshima.  
What are the contraindications to radioiodine therapy? · Breastfeeding and pregnancy. · Situations in which it is clear that the safety of other persons cannot be 911ar~nteecl ·    Patients who are incontinent who are unwilling to have a urinary catheter. ·    Allergy to iodine. What are the indications for radioiodine therapy, in hyperthyroidism? ·    Hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease with moderate goitre (40-50 g), with no  
significant eye signs and first presentation. 
·    Toxic multinodular goitre in older persons complicated by heart failure or atrial  
fibrillation. 
·    Toxic adenoma, usually with mild hyperthyroidism. ·    Ophthalmopathy with thyroid dysfunction with stable eye disease. ·    Ablation therapy in those with severe manifestations such as heart failure, atrial  
fibrillation or psychosis. 
CASE 133 What advice would you give to patients who are administered radioiodine? ·    Depending on the dose, they should avoid journeys on public transport, stay off  
work, avoid places of entertainment or close contact with other people for up to 12  days and avoid non-essential close personal contact with children and preg-nant  women for up to 27 days. 
·    Patients should be warned that in the first fortnight after administration of therapy  
they may experience palpitations or other exacerbations of symptoms, par-ticularly  when not euthyroid before treatment. 
·    The importance of regular follow-up should be emphasized, as should the need to  
report the recurrence of thyrotoxic symptoms or the development of  hypothyroidism. 
·    Patients should be informed that atrial fibrillation often reverts to normal rhythm  
and that digitalis may then be discontinued. 
·    Patients should be reminded to avoid pregnancy for 4 months after radioiodine  
therapy. 
Is there an increased frequency of cancer in patients with Graves' disease ? There is little evidence to suggest an increased frequency of thyroid cancer in  
patients with Graves' disease. 
Does thyrotoxicosis affect the bone? Yes, chronic thyrotoxicosis is associated with osteoporosis. If a patient with thyrotoxicosis develops muscle weakness following oral  
carbohydrate or intravenous dextrose, which condition comes to mind? 
Hypokalaemic periodic paralysis, which occurs particularly in Asian men. These  
attacks may last for 7-72 hours. 
What is the effect of iodine on thyroid status? It may cause transient hypothyroidism (Wolff-Chaikoff effect) or hyperthyroidism  
(Jod-Basedow phenomenon). 
What is the prevalence of hyperthyroidism ? The prevalence is 0.2% in the adult population; the prevalence of mild (subclinical)  
hyperthyroidism, where serum TSH is less than 0.1 mlU/1 and free T4 and T3 are  normal, is 0.1-6% of the adult population. 
What do you know about amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism? Amiodarone, which contains 37% iodine, can induce hyperthyroidism; this disorder is  
more common in iodine-deficient areas (Ann Intern Med 1984; 101: 28-34) and in  patients with nodular goitres and thyroid autoantibodies. There are two  mechanisms by which amiodarone may cause hyperthyroidism: thyroid destruction  due to an iodine-associated increase in circulating interleukin-6 (J Clin Endocrinol  Metab 1994; 78: 423-7) or an increase in thyroid hormone synthesis.  Amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism sometimes responds to thionamide  antithyroid drugs but may also be very resistant to treatment. A combination of  potassium perchlorate and carbimazole should be tried; steroids may he etlectlve,  particularly if interleukin-6 
     133                                                   ENDOCRINOLOGY concentrations are high, which suggests a destructive thyroiditis. In resistant cases,  
total thyroidectomy should be considered (Lancet 1997; 349: 33943). 
Robert James Graves (1796-1853) was a Dublin physician who described this  
condition. In 1835 he described three patients and wrote of one patient, 'It was  now observed that the eyes assumed a singular appearance for the eyeballs were  apparently enlarged, so that when she slept or tried to shut her eyes her lids were  incapable of closing, when the eyes were open, the white sclerotic could be seen,  to a breadth of several lines all around the cornea' (Graves R 1835 London Med  Surg J 7(Part II): 516). Graves' disease is also termed Basedow's or Parry's  disease. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's face. Perform a general examination of this patient. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    Obtain a history of thyrotoxicosis (see p. 355). ·    History of smoking (ophthalmopathy is more common in cigarette smokers, Lancet  
1991; 338: 25-7). 
Examination · Prominent eyeballs. · Look at the patient's eyes from behind and above for proptosis. ·    Comment on lid retraction (the sclera above the upper limbus of the cornea will be  
seen); this is Dalrymple's sign. 
·    Comment on the sclera visible between the lower eyelid and the lower limbus of  
the cornea (i.e. comment on the exophthalmos). Most patients have bilateral  exophthalmos with unilateral prominence. 
·    Check for lid lag (ask the patient to follow your finger and then move it along the  
arc of a circle from a point above her head to a point below the nose - the  move-ment of the lid lags behind that of the globe); this is von Graefe's sign.  Voluntary staring can result in a false lid lag, and the patient must be suitably  relaxed before eliciting this sign. 
·    Check for extraocular movements and comment on the cornea. ·    Look for the following: - Signs of thyrotoxicosis (fast pulse rate, tremor and sweating). - Goitre (listen for a  
bruit). - Post-thyroidectomy scar. 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has marked exophthalmos with ophthalmoplegia (lesions) with signs of  
thyrotoxicosis (functional status) due to Graves' disease (aetiology). 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS What eye signs of thyroid disease do you know? Werner's mnemonic, NO SPECS (J C/in Endocrinol Metab 1977; 44: 2034): No signs or symptoms. Only signs of upper lid retraction and stare, with or without lid lag and exophthalmos. Soft tissue involvement. Proptosis. Extraocular muscle involvement. Corneal involvement. Sight loss due to optic nerve involvement. 
How would you investigate this patient? ·    History and clinical examination for signs of thyrotoxicosis and thyroid  
enlarge-ment and bruit. 
·    Serum T4, triiodothyronine (T3), TSH. ·    Thyroid antibodies. Mention the factors implicated in the phenomenon of lid lag. · Sympathetic overstimulation, causing overaction of Mtiller's muscle. ·    Myopathy of the inferior rectus causing overaction of superior rectus and levator  
muscles. 
·    Restrictive myopathy of the levator muscle. What is euthyroid Graves' disease? The patient will be clinically and biochemically euthyroid but will have mani-festations  
of Graves' ophthalmopathy. A thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) stimulation  test will show a flat response curve. 
What would you recommend if a patient with unilateral exophthalmos is  
clinically and biochemically euthyroid? 
· Ophthalmological referral. · Ultrasonography of the orbit. · CT scan of the orbit. How is proptosis quantified? It is assessed using a Hertel's exophthalmometer. The upper limit of normal is subject  
to ethnic variation: usually, more than 20 mm is considered as proptosis. 
How would you manage a patient with Graves' ophthalmopathy? The single most important aspect is a close liaison between the physician and the  
ophthalmologist. 
Severe Graves' disease and visual loss should be treated immediately with high  
doses of corticosteroids, orbital irradiation and plasma exchange as an adjunct  and, if there is no improvement within 72-96 hours, orbital nerve decompression by 
 surgical removal of the floor and medial wall of the orbit is necessary. Moderate ophthalmopathy improves substantially in 2-3 years in most patients. In the  
interim the patient is treated symptomatically: 
·    Pain and grittiness is treated with methylcellulose eye drops by day and a  
lubricating eye ointment at night. 
·    Exposure keratitis may be relieved by lateral tarsorrhaphy, surgery of the lower  
eyelid. 
·    Diplopia may be relieved by prisms or surgery of the extraocular muscles. ·    Static or worsening ophthalmopathy is an indication for steroids, orbital  
decom-pression or orbital irradiation. 
·    Patients should be advised to stop smoking. 
Mild ophthalmopathy should be rectified by cosmetic eyelid surgery. It is important to  
remember that patients can be distressed by their appearance. During the early  acute phase patients will have considerable symptomatic relief from the following  measures: 
·    Elevating the head at night. ·    Diuretics to reduce oedema. ·    Tinted glasses for protection from the sun, wind and foreign bodies. What is the role of radioiodine in thyroid eye disease? ·    Firstly, since radioiodine treatment carries a substantial risk of exacerbating  
pre-existing thyroid eye disease, it should be avoided as far as possible in patients  with active or severe ophthalmopathy, in whom medical therapy with a thionamide  drug such as carbimazole is preferable. Radioiodine may be used in patients with  mild eye disease but adjuvant oral corticosteriods should be prescribed (N Engl J  Med 1998; 338: 73-8). 
·    Secondly, patients without clinical evidence of thyroid disease have a small risk of  
developing ophthalmopathy and a very low risk of developing severe eye disease.  It is prudent to warn all patients of this complication, but the risks do not justify  denying most patients the benefits of definitive treatment with radioiodine when  indicated. In addition, the risks do not justify the routine use of corti-costeroids in  patients without ophthalmopathy (BMJ 1999; 319: 68-9). 
·    Thirdly, smoking, a raised serum triiodothyronine concentration, and uncorrected  
hypothyroidism are also factors which can exacerbate thyroid eye disease.  There-fore, to reduce the risk of thyroid eye disease, patients should be  encouraged to stop smoking, be rendered euthyroid with a thionamide before  radioiodine, and be monitored closely to detect and treat early hypothyroidism or  persistent hyperthyroidism. 
Mention the less important eponyms related to thyroid eye disease These include: ·     Infrequent blinking - Stellwag's sign. ·    Tremor of closed eyelids - Rosenbach's sign. ·    Difficulty in everting upper eyelid - Gifford's sign. ·    Absence of wrinkling of forehead on sudden upward gaze - Joffroy's sign. ·    Impaired convergence of the eyes - M6bius' sign. ·    Weakness of at least one of the extraocular muscles - Ballet's sign. ·    Paralysis of extraocular muscles - Jendrassik's sign. 
·    Poor fixation on lateral gaze - Suker's sign. ·    Dilatation of pupil with weak adrenaline solution - Loewi's sign. ·    Jerky pupillary contraction to consensual light - Cowen's sign. ·    Increased pigmentation of the margins of eyelids - Jellinek's sign. ·    Upper lid resistance on downward traction - Grove's sign. ·    Abnormal fullness of the eyelid - Enroth's sign. ·    Unequal pupillary dilatation - Knie's sign. ·    When the eyeball is turned downwards, there is arrest of the descent of the lid,  
spasm and continued descent - Boston's sign. 
·    When the clinician places his or her hand on a level with the patient's eyes and  
then lifts it higher, the patient's upper lids spring up more quickly than the eyeball -  Kocher's sign. 
J. Dalrymple (1804-1852), an English ophthalmologist. Exophthalmos associated with goitre and non-organic heart disease was first  
described by English physician Caleb Hillard Parry (1775-1822) in a paper  published posthumously in 1825. He graduated in medicine from Edinburgh and  practised in Bath. He described hyperthyroidism before Graves' disease. 
In 1977, Solomon et al presented the evidence that three independent autoimmune  
diseases tended to occur concomitantly in the same euthyroid Graves'  ophthalmopathy: idiopathic hyperthyroidism, Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves'  ophthalmopathy. 
Anthony Tort, an endocrinologist at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, is past President of  
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. 
INSTRUCTION Obtain a history and perform relevant general examination. SALIENT FEATURES History · Dryness of skin. · Hair dryness or loss. · Cold intolerance. · Change in the voice (hoarse, husky). · Lethargy, undue tiredness. · Constipation. · Moderate weight gain in spite of loss of appetite. · Menstrual irregularity, especially menorrhagia.   · Infertility. · Depression. 
·    Dementia. ·    Muscle cramps. ·    Oedema. ·    Radioiodine therapy for previous Graves' disease (the patient may have  
associated eye signs of Graves' disease). 
·    Medications and other compounds such as lithium carbonate and  
iodine-containing compounds (e.g. amiodarone, radiocontrast agents,  expectorants containing potassium iodide, and kelp). 
·    Family history of thyroid dysfunction, pernicious anaemia, diabetes mellitus,  
primary adrenal insufficiency. 
·    Obtain history of hypercholesterolaemia, angina pectoris and hypertension  
(remember, hypertension occurs in 10% of these patients and disappears with  thyroxine replacement). 
Examination ·    Coarse, dry skin (look for yellowish tint of carotenaemia - 'peaches and cream'  
complexion). 
·    'Dirty elbows and knees' sign (Ber A 1954 The sign of 'dirty' knees and elbows.  
Acta Endocrinol (Copenh) 16: 305). 
·    Puffy lower eyelids. ·    Loss of outer third of eyebrows, xanthelasma. Proceed as follows: ·    Examine the neck for goitre and the scar of previous thyroidectomy. The typical  
Hashimoto gland is firm and lobulated. 
·    Slow pulse. ·    Check the ankle jerks, looking for delayed relaxation. ·    Look for: -Proximal muscle weakness. - Cerebellar signs. -Carpal tunnel syndrome. DIAGNOSIS This patient has delayed ankle jerks, puffy lower eyelids, slow pulse and hoarse,  
husky voice (lesions) indicating that he has hypothyroidism (functional status); the  cause needs to be determined (aetiology). 
QUESTIONS How is delayed relaxation best elicited in the ankle? Get the patient to kneel on a chair with his hands holding the back of the chair and  
then elicit the jerks on either side. 
What are the causes of goitre? 
· Idiopathic (majority). · Hashimoto's thyroiditis. · Graves' disease. 
·    Iodine deficiency (simple goitre). ·    Puberty, pregnancy, subacute thyroiditis, goitrogens (lithium, phenylbutazone). What is the thyroid status in Hashimoto's disease? Hypothyroidism (usually). What is the single best clinical indicator for hypothyroidism? Delayed ankle jerks. What is the best laboratory indicator for hypothyroidism? Elevated serum TSH levels. When there is a suspicion of pituitary or hypothalamic  
disease, the serum free T4 concentration should be measured in addition to serum  TSH levels. Serum triiodothyronine concentrations are a poor indicator of  hypo-thyroid state and should not be used. 
What are the laboratory changes in hypothyroidism? · Hypercholesterolaemia. · Hyponatraemia. · Anaemia. · Elevations of creatinine phosphokinase and lactate dehydrogenase. · Hyperprolactinaemia. What are the causes of isolated TSH elevation? · Mild (subclinical) hypothyroidism. · Recovery from hypothyroxinaemia of non-thyroidal illnesses. ·    Medications such as amiodarone or lithium (Arch Intern Med 2000; 160: 1573-5). What are the causes of isolated TSH suppression? · Mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism. · Recovery from overt hyperthyroidism. · Non-thyroidal illness which cause low serum free thyroxine concentration. · Pregnancy during first trimester. · Medications such as dopamine and glucocorticoids. How would you investigate a simple goitre? Estimation of serum T3, T4, TSH and thyroid antibodies. 
What is the cause for delayed relaxation in hypothyroidism? The exact cause is not known. It is probably due to decreased muscle metabolism. How would you manage this patient with hypothyroidism? Oral thyroxine replacement therapy for life. The therapeutic dose varies between 100  
and 200 gg per day taken as a single dose. Dose adjustments are made once in 3  weeks. The dose is adjusted depending on the clinical response and suppression  of raised serum TSH levels. Lack of response to thyroxine suggests: 
·    Non-thyroid related disease. ·    Poor compliance. ·    Underlying psychiatric abnormalities. ·    Presence of pernicious anaemia. ·    Associated autoimmune disease such as Addison's disease. 
What is the hazard in treating the elderly? Rapid T4 replacement may precipitate angina and myocardial infarction. The starting  
dose in the elderly is 50/ag per day. 
What are the cardiovascular manifestations of hypothyroidism? · Bradycardia. · Mild hypertension. · Pericarditis and pericardial effusion.      · High low-density lipoprotein, low high-density                lipoprotein         levels,      hypercholesterolaemia. 
                                                  · Diminished cardiac output and cardiac failure.                                                                                  · Coronary artery disease. 
· ECG changes: low-voltage T and P waves, prolongation of QT interval. What are the neurological manifestations of hypothyroidism? 
· Delayed deep tendon reflexes (Woltman's sign). · Carpal tunnel syndrome, peripheral  
neuropathy. · Myxoedema madness. · Myxoedema coma. · Pseudodementia. 
·    Deafness to high tones (Trotter's syndrome) (Trotter WR 1960 The association of  
deafness with thyroid dysfunction. Br Med Bull 16: 92). 
·    In Pendred's syndrome, babies are born with a goitre, deafness and mental  
retardation. 
·    Cerebellar syndrome (Lancet 1960; ii: 225). ·    Hoffmann's syndrome, i.e. muscle aches with myotonia in myxoedema. In infants,  
muscle involvement may result in Kocher-Debr6-S6mdlaigne syndrome or 'infant  Hercules'. 
What do you understand by subclinical hypothyroidism? This is a condition in which serum thyroxine levels are low normal, and serum TSH is  
moderately raised (grade 1: 5-10, grade 2: 10.1-20, grade 3: >20). All these  
patients should be treated. 
What other conditions are associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis? · Addison's disease. · Diabetes mellitus. · Graves' disease. · Hypoparathyroidism. · Premature ovarian failure. · Pernicious anaemia. · Rheumatoid arthritis. · Sj6gren's syndrome. · Ulcerative colitis. · SLE. · Haemolytic anaemia. What do you understand by the term 'sick euthyroid syndrome'? In severe acute non-thyroidal illness or following surgery, changes in l~ituitary-thyroid  
function result in altered thyroid indices but, despite this, patients remain 
euthyroid. On recovery from the illness, the indices of thyroid function return to  
normal (N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 1562-3). The changes in thyroidal indices  include: 
· Decrease in extrathyroidal conversion of thyroxine T4 to triiodothyronine (T3), the  
active form of the thyroid hormone. 
·    A decrease in thyrotrophin secretion, which causes decreased thyroidal secretion  
and, in time, decreases in serum T4 concentrations and further decreases in  serum T3 concentrations - the latter due to both decreased secretion of T3 by the  thyroid and diminished availability of T4 for peripheral conversion to T3. 
·    Decreased production or diminished affinity for thyroidal hormones of one or more  
major serum thyroid hormone-binding proteins - thyroxine-binding globulin,  transthyretin and albumin. These decreases can result in decreased serum total  thyroxine levels but not in free T4 or T3. Serum concentrations of reverse T3  (which is inactive) are increased because its deiodination is impaired. 
What is the prevalence of hypothyroidism? The prevalence is 2% of the adult population, whereas that of mild (subclinical)  
hypothyroidism is 5-17% (subclinical hypothyroidism is when serum TSH is  elevated with a normal free T4 concentration). 
The complete clinical description of myxoedema was first given by Gull in 1873, but it  
was Ord in 1878 who coined the word myxoedema when, at autopsy, he found  extensive deposits of mucin in the skin of the feet (Ord WM. On myxoedema, a  term proposed to be applied to an essential condition in the 'cretinoid' affection  
occasionally observed in middle-aged women. Med Chir Trans 1878; 61: 57). 
W.W. Gull (1816-1890), FRS, graduated from Guy's Hospital in London and was  
created a Baronet when he treated the then Prince of Wales, who had typhoid. He  was a good teacher and said that 'Savages explain, science investigates' (Gull  WW. On a cretinoid state supervening in adult life in women. Trans Clin Soc  London 1873; 7: 180-5). 
Emil Theodor Kocher (1841-1917), Swiss Professor of Surgery in Berne, was  
awarded the Nobel Prize in 1909 for his work on the physiology, pathology and  surgery of the thyroid gland. He was the first to excise the thyroid gland for goitre  and described myxoedema following thyroidectomy - 'cachexia strumipriva'. His  name is associated with: (1) Kocher forceps; (2) Kocher's transverse cervical  incision for thyroidectomy; (3) Kocher's operation for the wrist; (4) Kocher's oblique  right subcostal incision for gallbladder surgery; (5) Kocher manoeuvre for reduction  of a dislocated shoulder; and (6) Kocher syndrome describing splenomegaly and  lymphadenopathy with thyrotoxicosis. 
R. Debr~ and G. S~m~laigne were both French physicians (Debre R, S~m~laigne G.  
Syndrome of diffuse muscular hypertrophy in infants causing athletic appearance.  Its connection with congenital myxoedema. Am J Dis Child 1935; 50: 1351). 
H. Hashimoto (1881-1934), a Japanese surgeon. Johann Hoffmann (1857-1919), a German neurologist. in 1948, H.E.W. Roberton, a general practitioner in New Zealand, was the first to  
recognize post-partum thyroid disease - he successfully treated lassitude and  other symptoms of hypothyroidism related to the post-partum period with thyroid  extract. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's neck. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    Strider (trachea must be narrowed to 20-30% for this symptom). ·    Hoarseness of voice (due to pressure on recurrent laryngeal nerve; suggests  
thyroid malignancy). 
·    Acute painful enlargement (suggests bleeding into thyroid nodule). ·    Suffusion of face when the patient raises the arms above the head (suggests  
substernal goitre). 
·    Dysphagia. ·    Deafness (if due to eighth cranial nerve involvement suggests Pendred's  
syndrome; rare). 
·    Symptoms of thyroid hyper- or hypofunction. Examination · Middle-aged or elderly patient. · Multinodular goitre. · Atrial fibrillation. · Signs of thyrotoxicosis (see p. 355). DIAGNOSIS This patient has a multinodular goitre (lesion) and is hyperthyroid with atrial fibrillation  
(functional status). 
QUESTIONS What is the natural history of thyrotoxicosis in nodular goitre? It is permanent and there are no spontaneous remissions; therefore, antithyroid drugs  
to decrease thyroid hormone secretion are not an appropriate long-term therapy. 
How would you investigate a nodular goitre? ·    Serum thyrotrophin and tree thyroxine should be measured to identify those with  
subclinical or overt hyperthyroidism. 
·    Uhrasonography of the thyroid gland indicates whether the goitre is cystic or solid. ·    If nodule is solid, perform a radioisotope scan to indicate whether it is hot or cold. ·    If cold nodule, fine-needle aspiration. 
·    Patients with features of tracheal compression (inspiratory stridor and dyspnoea)  
should undergo CT or MRI of the neck and upper thorax, and pulmonary function  tests, especially flow-volume loop studies. When CT is used, iodinated contrast  agents should not be given because of the risk of inducing hyperthyroidism. 
How would you treat such a patient? · Beta-blockers to control thyrotoxicosis. · Warfarin in atrial fibrillation to prevent embolic complications. · Radioiodine for hyperthyroidism. ·    Surgery if the patient refuses radioiodine, for large multinodular goitres or  
malignancy. 
What are the indications for treatment of patients with non-toxic multinodular  
goitre? 
· Compression of the trachea or oesophagus and venous outflow obstruction. · Growth of the goitre, especially where there is intrathoracic extension. · Neck discomfort or cosmetic issues. What treatment options are available for non-toxic multinodular goitre ? Surgery Standard therapy, especially when rapid decompression of vital structures is  
required. It allows pathological examination of the thyroid. Disadvantages include  postoperative tracheal obstruction, recurrent laryngeal nerve injury,  hypo-parathyroidism, hypothyroidism and goitre recurrence. 
Thyroxine Alternative to surgery in young patients with small goitres. Its disadvantage is that it  
causes only a small decrease in thyroid volume; long-term efficacy is not known;  decrease in bone mineral density in postmenopausal women; possible cardiac side  effects. 
Radioiodine An alternative to surgery in elderly patients and in those with cardiopulmonary  
disease. It results in a substantial decrease in thyroid volume and improvement of  compressive symptoms in most patients. Disadvantages include: it only causes a  gradual decrease in thyroid volume; radiation thyroiditis (usually mild);  radiation-induced thyroid dysfunction (hyperthyroidism in 5%, hypothyroidism in  20-30%); possible risk of radiation-induced cancer (N Engl J Med 1998; 338:  143847). 
What treatment options are available for toxic multinodular goitre?  Treatment is always indicated when overt hyperthyroidism is present. In cases of  
subclinical hyperthyroidism, treatment is advisable in elderly patients and in  younger ones who are at risk for cardiac disease or osteoporosis. The treatment  options available are: 
Antithyroid drugs Valuable as pretreatment for surgery; valuable before and after radioiodine treat-ment  
in elderly patients and those with concurrent health problems; long-term treatment  is 'recommended only when other therapies cannot be used. The dis-advantagc~  ale that the treatment is lifelong and there are adverse effects such as 
agranulocytosis. Surgery Should be considered for large goitres when rapid relief is needed. The other  
advantage is that it provides tissue for a pathological diagnosis. Disadvantages  include surgical mortality and morbidity; hypothyroidism, persistence or recurrence  of hyperthyroidism. 
Radioiodine An appealing option in the majority of the patients because it is highly effective for  
reversal of hyperthyroidism. The disadvantages include a gradual diminution of the  hyperthyroid state, more than one dose may be necessary, hypothyroidism  (<20%); theoretical risk of radiation-induced cancer (N Engl J Med 1998;  338:1438-47). 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS 
How do you differentiate between Graves' disease and toxic nodular goitre ? 
Graves' disease                  Toxic nodular goitre 
Younger age group Diffuse goitre Eye signs common Atrial fibrillation uncommon Other autoimmune diseases common Older individuals Nodular enlargement of the gland Eye signs rare Atrial fibrillation common (about 40% of the patients) Other autoimmune diseases uncommon 
What factors influence the decision to proceed to radiotherapy? Patient's age, sex, diagnosis, severity of hyperthyroidism, presence of other medical  
conditions, access to radioiodine (I-131), and patient and doctor preference. 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient, who presented with weakness, loss of appetite and weight loss. 
SALIENT FEATURES History · Dizziness, syncope. · Skin pigmentation (ask if the patient has been sitting in the sun). 
·    Ask questions regarding fatigue, weakness, apathy, anorexia, nausea, vomiting,  
weight loss and abdominal pain. 
·    Depression. Examination The striking abnormality is hyperpigmentation. Proceed as follows: · Examine for hyperpigmentation: -The hand: compare the creases with your own. -The mouth and lips for pigmentation. -Areas not usually covered by clothing: nipples, areas irritated by belts, straps, collars or rings. · Look for vitiligo. ·    Tell the examiner that you would like to investigate as follows: -Examine the blood  
pressure, in particular for postural hypotension. -Look for sparse axillary and pubic  hair. 
-Examine the abdomen for adrenal scar (if the scar is pigmented, think of Nelson's syndrome and examine field defects). ·    If you suspect Addison's disease, tell the examiner that you would like to do a  
short ACTH (1-24) test (Synacthen test). 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has postural hypotension, marked hyperpigmentation and sparse axillary  
hair (lesion) due to autoimmune Addison's disease (aetiology). The patient has  marked hypoadrenalism (functional status). 
QUESTIONS What is the size of the heart in Addison's deficiency? The heart is small. Mention some causes of hyperpigmentation. · Suntan. · Race. · Uraemia. · Haemochromatosis. · Primary biliary cirrhosis. · Ectopic ACTH. · Porphyria cutanea tarda. · Nelson's syndrome. · Malabsorption syndromes. 
Mention some causes of Addison's disease. · Idiopathic (80%). · Tuberculosis. · Metastasis. · HIV infection. 
Which conditions may be associated with Addison's disease? Graves' disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary ovarian failure, pernicious anaemia,  
polyglandular syndromes. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS What are the components of Schmidt's  syndrome? Addison's disease and hypoparathyroidism. What do you know about polyglandular syndromes? They are autoimmune in nature and are of two types: ·    Type I: chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism and Addison's  
disease. 
·    Type II: Addison's disease, insulin-dependent diabetes and thyroid disease  
(hyper-thyroidism or hypothyroidism). This syndrome is also known as  autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dysplasia. 
What are the features of AIIgrove's syndrome? Adrenal insensitivity to ACTH (resulting in cortisol deficiency), achalasia, alacrima  
and neurological disease. 
How would you investigate this patient? · FBC (for lymphocytosis, eosinophilia). ·    Electrolytes (for hyponatraemia, hyperkalaemia, hyperchloraemic acidosis,  
hypercalcaemia). 
·    Blood glucose, looking for hypoglycaemia. ·    Short ACTH (1-24) (Synacthen) test; if positive, follow up with a prolonged ACTH  
stimulation test. 
·    ACTH and cortisol levels. ·    Adrenal autoantibodies. ·    CXR for tuberculosis. ·    Plain radiograph of the abdomen for adrenal calcification. ·    CT scan of the adrenals. How would you manage this patient if the underlying aetiology is autoimmune  
? 
·    Replacement steroids: prednisolone 5 mg maneand 2.5 mg nocte; adjust dose  
depending on serum levels and clinical well-being. 
·    Fludrocortisone 0.025-0.15 mg daily; adjust dose depending on postural  
hypotension. 
·    Give steroid card and Medic Alert bracelet. ·    Stress the importance of regular therapy, and increase the dose in the event of  
stress such as dental extraction or urinary tract infection. It is also important to tell  the patient that this therapy is lifelong and that an ampoule of hydrocortisone  should be kept at home. 
·    Follow up every 6 months. Note. In addisonian crisis, intravenous fluids and hydrocortisone should be  
admin-istered (after drawing a blood sample for cortisol determination). 
Thomas Addison (1793-1860) qualified from Edinburgh and worked at Guy's Hospital,  
London. He wrote The Constitutional and Local Effects of the Disease of the  Suprarenal Capsules. Armand Trosseau in Paris labelled the disease 'maladie  d'Addison'. Addison also first described morphoea. The original description of the  disease was reported in the following paper: Addison T 1855 Disease of the  suprarenal capsules. London Med Gaz 43: 517. 
John F. Kennedy, past president of the USA, reportedly had Addison's disease and  
was on replacement corticosteroid therapy. 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient's face. This patient complains of excessive sweating; examine him. Examine this patient's  
hands. 
SALIENT FEATURES History · Ask the patient about old photographs of him/herself for comparison. · Ask whether the patient has outgrown wedding ring and shoes. · Hyperhidrosis. · Headaches, visual field defects (depends on the size of the tumour). · Paraesthesia and symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome (p. 212). · Hypertension. · Acral and facial changes. 
* Oligomenorrhoea/amenorrhoea, galactorrhoea in females. · Impotence in males. · Shortness of breath (cardiac failure). · Arthritis (hands, feet, hips and knees). Examination Hands .    On shaking hands there is excessive sweating - moist, doughy, enveloping  
handshake. 
·    Large hands with broad palms, spatulate fingers; there is an increase in the  
'volume' of the hands. 
Proceed as follows: Look for evidence of carpal tunnel syndrome (tap over the flexor retinaculum for  
Tin~l'~ ~ign). 
Face · Prominent supraorbital ridges. · Large nose and lips. ·    Protrusion of the lower jaw (prognathism); ask the patient to clench his teeth and  
note the malocclusion and splaying of the teeth (i.e. interdental separation). 
Proceed  as follows: Ask the patient to show his tongue and look for macroglossia and for impressions of  
the teeth on the edges of the tongue (see p. 616). 
Test · For bitemporal hemianopia (see pp 133-4) and optic atrophy. · Neck for goitre. ·    Axillae for skin tags (molluscum fibrosum), acanthosis nigricans (black velvety  
papillomas). 
·    Chest for cardiomegaly, gynaecomastia and galactorrhoea. ·    Abdomen for hepatosplenomegaly. ·    Joints for arthropathy, i.e. osteoarthrosis, chondrocalcinosis. ·    Spine for kyphosis. ·    Blood pressure for hypertension (present in 15% of cases). ·    Tell the examiner that you would like to examine the urine for sugar (impaired  
glucose tolerance). 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has a protruding lower jaw, splaying of teeth and large spade-like hands  
(lesions) which are features of acromegaly due to a pituitary tumour (aetiology). 
QUESTIONS Would you like to ask the patient a few questions? Ask about any increase in size of shoes, gloves and hat, and whether the wedding  
ring is tight to wear. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS Mention some causes of macroglossia. · Acromegaly. · Amyloidosis. · Hypothyroidism. · Down's syndrome. How can this condition present? 
One third of patients notice a change in their features, one third are noticed to  have a change in their features by their GP, and the remaining third have  symptoms such as excessive sweating and visual difficulties. 
What are the complications of acromegaly? · Cardiomegaly and heart failure. · Hypertension. · Impaired glucose tolerance. 
·    Hypopituitarism. ·    Carpal tunnel syndrome. ·    Arthritis of the hip, knee and spine. ·    Spinal stenosis resulting in cord compression. ·    Visual field defects. What are the indicators of disease activity? · Symptoms such as headache, increase in size of ring, shoe or dentures. · Excessive sweating. · Skin tags. · Glycosuria. · Hypertension. · Increased loss of visual fields. How would you investigate this patient? Biochemical tests ·    Non-suppressibility of growth hormone levels to less than 2 ng/ml after oral  
administration of 100 g glucose. 
·    Plasma insulin-like growth factor levels (allow assessment of the efficacy of initial  
therapy and in the post-therapeutic period). 
·    Also serum T4, prolactin, testosterone; evaluate pituitary function - static and  
dynamic tests. 
·    Calcium levels (to exclude multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1 syndrome). Radiography · Pituitary fossa (enlarged sella). 
· Sinuses. · Chest (cardiomegaly). · Hand (terminal phalangeal 'tufting'). ·    Foot (terminal phalangeal 'tufting', lateral view shows increased thickness of the  
heel pad). 
·    CT scan (MRI scan is more reliable). Remember  that, unlike in Cushing's disease and prolactinomas, the majority of the  
patients with acromegaly have macroadenomas. 
Other investigations · Formal perimetry. · Obtain old photos. · New photos of face, torso, hands on the chest. · ECG. · Triple stimulation test if hypopituitarism is suspected. What therapeutic options are available? ·    Neurosurgical intervention - typically trans-sphenoidal - is the primary thera-peutic  
choice for almost all patients. Diaphoresis and carpal tunnel syndrome often  improve within 1 day of surgery. Although growth hormone levels fall immediately,  insulin-like growth factor levels fall gradually. 
·    Radiation therapy is a primary treatment option for a few patients who have  
acromegaly but are not surgical candidates. 
·    Octreotide and bromocriptine are valuable as adjunctive therapy. 
Remember. The aim of treatment should be symptomatic control and a growth  
hormone concentration of less than 5 mU/1. 
Mention four common causes of death in such patients. · Cardiac failure. · Tumour expansion (mass effect and haemorrhages). · Effects of hypertension. · Degenerative vascular disease. Mention other conditions in which there is excess growth hormone secretion. ·    Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (parathyroid hyperplasia, pituitary tumours  
and gut tumours). 
·    McCune-Albright syndrome (polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, sexual precocity and  
caf6-au-lait spots). 
·    Carney complex, of autosomal dominant aetiology, which consists of multi-centric  
tumours in many organs (including cardiac myxomas, myxomas in breast, testes,  pigmented skin lesions and pigmented nodular hyperplasia). 
In 1886, Pierre Marie (1853-1940) used the term 'acromegaly' in describing two  
patients and reviewed eight previously published papers describing patients with  presumed acromegaly (Marie P 1886 Sur deux cas d'acromegalie. Hypertrophie  
singuliere non-cong~nitale des extremites sup~rieures, inferieures et c~phaliques.  Rev Med 6: 297-333). He also described Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. In 1887,  Minkowski deduced that acromegaly is related to pituitary tumour (Minkowski O  1887 Uber einen Fall von Akromegalie. Berl Kiln Wochenschr 24: 371-4). 
In 1891, the New Syndenham Society published a translation of Marie's original  
paper and a review by Souza-Leite of 48 patients (Marie P, Souza-Leite JD 1891  Essays on Acromegaly. London: New Sydenham Society). 
Fuller Albright, Professor of Endocrinology at Massachussetts General Hospital and  
Harvard Medical School, whose chief interest was calcium metabolism. 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient. SALIENT FEATURES History · In a male, the frequency of shaving, impotence. · In a female, postpartum haemorrhage, amenorrhoea. ·    History of radiation (e.g. proton-beam radiation) - causes hypopituitarism primarily  
because of its effects on hypothalamic function, whereas high-dose radiation  can  directly affect the pituitary. 
Examination · Patient is pale; the skin is soft. · Paucity of axillary and pubic hair. · Atrophy of breast (in females). · Examine the blood pressure for postural hypotension. · Check visual fields: bitemporal hemianopia may be present. · Examine the fundus for optic atrophy. Proceed as follows: Tell the examiner that you would like to examine the external genitalia for  
hypo-gonadism (small testes). 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has pale soft skin and absence of axillary hair with atrophied breasts  
(lesion) due to hypopituitarism (functional status) secondary to postpartum  necrosis (aetiology). 
QUESTIONS Mention a few causes of hypopituitarism. · Iatrogenic - from surgical removal of the pituitary or irradiation. · Chromophobe adenoma (particularly in males). · Postpartum pituitary necrosis in females - known as Sheehan's syndrome. Rare causes · Craniopharyngioma. ·    Metastatic tumours, granulomas (TB, sarcoid, haemochromatosis, histiocytosis X). How would you assess such a patient? · FBC for normochromic normocytic anaemia. ·    Urea and electrolytes for hyponatraemia due to dilution. Hyperkalaemia does not  
usually occur because aldosterone production is not affected. 
·    Measurement of pituitary hormone levels (ACTH, TSH, luteinizing hormone (LH),  
growth hormone, prolactin). 
·    Measurement of target organ secretion (T4, T3, serum cortisol, testosterone,  
oestrogen and progesterone levels). 
·    Pituitary stimulation tests: -Thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) stimulation tests. -Tetracosactide  
(Synacthen) tests.  -Insulin hypoglycaemia test. 
-Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) tests. ·    Skull radiography. ·    MRI provides the best image of parasellar lesions. The posterior pituitary usually  
has a high-intensity signal on sagittal MRI that is absent in central diabetes  insipidus. 
·    Assessment of visual fields (formal perimetry). 
In what order do the hormone secretions generally  fail? In general, growth hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and LH secretions  
become deficient early, followed by TSH and ACTH. Last of all, antidiuretic  hormone (ADH) secretions diminish and fail. 
How would you treat such patients? The mainstay of therapy is lifetime replacement of end-organ hormone deficiencies  
(thyroid, adrenal and gonads). 
Does hypopituitarism affect life expectancy? Even when hormonal replacement therapy (adrenal, gonadal and thyroid) is carried  
out in an adequate manner, there is a two-fold risk of death in patients with  hypo-pituitarism (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1996; 81:1169-72). It has been  suggested that this is due to untreated growth hormone deficiency. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS 
What is the Houssay phenomenon? Houssay showed that diabetes of pancreatectomized dogs improved after  
hypophysectomy. A diminishing requirement of insulin by diabetics may be a sign  of hypopituitarism with diminished secretion of growth hormone and ACTH (and  thus corticosteroids). Similarly, diabetes due to acromegaly may improve with  pituitary surgery or octreotide therapy. 
Morris Simmonds of Hamburg described this condition in 1914. Bernardo Alberto Houssay (1889-1971), an Argentinian physiologist in Buenos Aires,  
was awarded the Nobel Prize for his discovery of the part played by the hormone  of the anterior pituitary lobe in the metabolism of sugar. The other half of the Nobel  Prize was awarded to Carl and Gerty Cori of St Louis, Missouri., USA, who were  awarded the prize for their discovery of the course of the catalytic conversion of  glycogen. 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient's chest. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    Take a drug history - oestrogens, digoxin, spironolactone, cimetidine, diazepam,  
alkylating agents, methyldopa, clomifene. 
 ·    Ask the patient if it is painful. Examination Unilateral or bilateral enlargement of the breasts in a male patient. Proceed as follows: · Palpate to confirm the presence of glandular tissue. · Tell the examiner that you would like to look for stigmata of cirrhosis of the liven DIAGNOSIS This patient has gynaecomastia (lesion) due to spironolactone therapy (aetiology),  
which is cosmetically distressing to the patient (functional status). 
Read: N Engl J Med 1993; 328: 490. 
QUESTIONS Mention the physiological causes of gynaecomastia. · Newborn. · Adolescence. · Ageing. Mention a few pathological causes               . · Chronic liver disease. · Thyrotoxicosis. · Klinefelter's syndrome. · Viral orchitis. · Renal failure. · Neoplasms (bronchogenic carcinoma, testicular carcinoma, hepatoma). ·    Bulbospinal muscular atrophy or Kennedy's syndrome (a defect in the androgen  
receptor gene alters function of motor neurons; 50% of patients have  gynaecomastia). 
·    Drugs associated with gynaecomastia include: -Antibiotics: isoniazid, ketoconazole, metronidazole, miconazole. -Cardiovascular  
drugs: atenolol, captopril, digoxin, enalapril, methyldopa, 
nifedipine, spironolactone, verapamil. -Antiulcer  drugs: cimetidine, ranitidine, omeprazole. -Psychoactive drugs: diazepam, tricyclic antidepressants. ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS How would you investigate such a patient? · CXR for metastatic or bronchogenic carcinoma. ·    Plasma human chorionic gonadotrophin (13-hCG) - detectable levels implicate a  
testicular tumour or lung or liver neoplasm. 
·    Plasma testosterone and luteinizing hormone in the diagnosis of hypogonadism. ·    Serum oestradiol (usually normal). ·    Other: serum prolactin, serum thyroxine and TSH, and chromosomal analysis for  
Klinefelter's syndrome. 
What are the causes of a feminizing state? · Absolute increase in oestrogen formation by tumours. · Increased availability of oestrogen precursors, e.g. as a result of cirrhosis. · Increased extraglandular oestrogen synthesis. ·    Relative increase in ratio of oestrogen to androgen, e.g. as a result of testicular  
failure. 
·    Drugs. Ancient Egyptian sculptures and paintings suggest that the pharaoh Tutankhamen  
(1357-1339 BC) had gynaecomastia. 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient's hands. SALIENT FEATURES History · History of thyroid surgery. · Paraesthesias of fingers, toes and circumoral region. · Muscle cramping, carpopedal spasm, laryngeal stridor, convulsions. Examination Spasm of the hands - the fingers are extended, except at the metacarpophalangeal  
joints, and the thumb is strongly adducted. 
Proceed as follows: · Look at the feet for spasm and then investigate as follows: -Tap over the facial nerve (in front of the tragus of the ear). There is contraction of the lips and facial muscles (Chvostek's sign or Chvostek-Weiss sign). -Inflate the  
cuff just above the systolic pressure for 3 minutes; this will cause the 
hand to go into spasm - Trousseau's sign. -Look into the mouth for candidiasis (may be seen in primary hypopara- thyroidism) and defective teeth. -Fingernails may be thin and brittle. -Check for thyroidectomy scar. -Look for  
cataracts. 
·    Tell the examiner that you would like to perform the following tests: - Skull  
radiograph (looking for basal ganglia calcification). -Measurement of serum  calcium and magnesium levels. 
-ECG for prolonged QT intervals and T-wave abnormalities. - Slit-lamp examination for early posterior lenticular cataract formation. DIAGNOSIS This patient has carpopedal spasm (lesion) due to hypoparathyroidism as a  
com-plication of thyroidectomy (aetiology). 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS 
Mention any drugs that you would use cautiously in hypoparathyroidism. Furosemide (frusemide), as it may enhance hypocalcaemia, and phenothiazine  
drags, because they may precipitate extrapyramidal symptoms. 
How would you manage an acute attack of hypoparathyroid tetany? · Maintain airway. · Slow intravenous calcium gluconate and oral calcium. · Vitamin D preparations. · Magnesium (if associated hypomagnesaemia). What  are the causes of hypoparathyroidism (Arch Intern Med 1979; 139: 1166)? · Damage during thyroid or neck surgery (Lancet 1960; ii: 1432). · Idiopathic. ·    Destruction of the parathyroid gland due to the following: -Radioactive iodine  
therapy. -External neck irradiation. 
-   Haemochromatosis and Wilson's deficiency. -Metastatic disease from the breast, lung, lymphoproliferative disorder. ·    Dysembryogenesis (DiGeorge syndrome). ·    Polyglandular autoimmune syndrome (PGA type 1) which is also known as  
autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECD) (see  p. 371). 
What are the biochemical features of hypoparathyroidism? Typically, low serum calcium, high serum phosphate and normal alkaline  
phosphatase levels and reduced urine calcium excretion. 
What do you know about pseudohypoparathyroidism? It is a condition characterized by end-organ resistance to parathyroid hormone. The  
biochemistry is similar to that of idiopathic hypoparathyroidism except that patients  with pseudohypoparathyroidism do not respond to injected parathyroid hormone.  These patients are moon faced, short statured and mentally retarded and may  have short fourth or fifth metacarpals. Patients without hypocalcaemia but who  have these phenotypic abnormalities are said to have  'pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism'. 
What are the main physiological effects of parathyroid hormone? It results in a net increase of ionized calcium in the plasma as a result of: · Increased bone osteoclastic activity resulting in increased delivery of calcium and phosphorus to the extracellular compartment. 
·    Enhanced renal tubular absorption of calcium. ·    Inhibits the absorption of phosphate and bicarbonate by the renal tubule. ·    Stimulates the synthesis of 1,25-dihydrocholecalciferol (vitamin D) by the kidney. 
Franz Chvostek (1835-1884) was Professor of Medicine in Vienna, Austria. Nathan  
Weiss (1851-1883), an Austrian physician. 
Armand Trousseau (1801-1867), a Parisian physician, was the first to refer to adrenal  
insufficiency as Addison's disease. 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient who was told by her GP that she has a 'nervous bowel'. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    Confirm a history of chronic intermittent diarrhoea. ·    Flushing attacks, which may be associated with increased lacrimation and  
periorbital oedema. Flushing may be provoked by eating, exertion, excitement or  ethanol. 
·    Wheeze (due to bronchoconstriction during flushing attacks). Examination ·    Flushed face ('fire-engine' face). ·    Telangiectasia. Proceed as follows: · Listen to the chest for wheeze (bronchial carcinoid). ·    Listen to the heart (right-sided murmurs in intestinal, gastric, hepatic and ovarian  
carcinoid, left-sided murmurs in bronchial carcinoid). 
·    Look for hepatomegaly (nodular and firm due to metastases, may be pulsatile due  
to tricuspid regurgitation). 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has facial flushing and tricuspid regurgitation (lesion) due to carcinoid  
syndrome (aetiology) and is in cardiac failure (functional status). 
Classic reference: Am J Med 1956; 20- 520-32. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS What are the cardiac lesions seen in metastatic carcinoid from the liver? *   Right-sided valvular lesions, including tricuspid stenosis or regurgitation, and  
pulmonary stenosis or regurgitation. (Note: bronchial carcinoids metastasize to the  
left side of the heart.) 
·    Endocardial fibrosis. How is the diagnosis confirmed? Raised urinary levels of 5-HIAA (hydroxyindoleacetic acid). How are these tumours treated? · Emergency treatment includes prednisolone. .    Severe diarrhoea: hydration, diphenoxylate with atropine, cyproheptadine or  
methysergide. 
.    Octreotide (a somatostatin analogue) is associated with a significant reduction in  
5-HIAA concentration. 
*   Surgery is useful for localized carcinoid. ·    Chemotherapy in advanced disease (fluorouracil, streptozocin, dacarbazine). ·    Interferon-c~ may be useful in those who do not respond to surgery and octreotide  
treatment (Digestion 1994; 55 (suppl 3): 64-9). 
INSTRUCTION Look at this patient. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    Family history of obesity (parental obesity more than doubles the risk of adult  
obesity among both obese and non-obese children under 10 years of age, N Engl  J Med 1997; 337: 869-73). 
·    History of sleep apnoea, snoring and insomnia. ·    History of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia, cardiovascular disease. ·    Gastro-oesophageal reflux. ·    History of gallstones (cholesterol gallstones more prevalent in obesity). ·    History of endometrial cancer in women (two to three times more common in  
obese than in lean women). 
·    History of breast cancer (risk increases with body mass index in postmenopausal  women). ·    Cancer of gallbladder and biliary system (obese women have a higher incidence). ·    Cancer of colon, rectum and prostate, and renal cell cancer (N Engl J Med 2000;  
343:1305-11) (higher in obese men). 
Examination Patient has excessive adipose tissue. 
Proceed as follows: · Measure the height and body weight (to determine body mass index). ·    Check blood pressure (the prevalence of hypertension is approximately three  
times higher in the obese than the non-obese). 
·    Examine the joints to exclude osteoarthrosis. ·    Examine skin for intertrigo in redundant folds of skin (fungal and yeast infections  
of skin are also common). 
·    Tell the examiner that you would like to: -Assess urine sugar (the prevalence of diabetes is three times higher in over- weight than in non-overweight persons). -Check serum lipids (these patients otlen have an adverse pattern of plasma lipoproteins that generally improves with weight loss). -Assess pulmonary function (sleep apnoea). -Exclude secondary causes (hypothyroidism, Cushing's syndrome, polycystic ovary syndrome). DIAGNOSIS This patient has gross obesity (lesion) of genetic origin, complicated by hyper-tension  
and osteoarthrosis. 
ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS Is obesity of genetic origin? Although many obese individuals are blamed for being obese - by their friends,  
physicians, family and by themselves - increasingly it has been shown that genetic  influences have a substantial influence on body mass index. The ob gene is an  adipocyte-specific gene that encodes leptin, a protein that regulates body weight.  Animals with mutations in the ob gene are obese and lose weight when given  leptin (Nature 1994; 372: 425-32).  In  humans, serum leptin concentrations  correlate with the percentage of body fat, suggesting that most obese people are  insensitive to endogenous leptin (leptin resistance). 
What is the body mass index? It is a measure to determine the presence of excessive adipose tissue and is  
cal-culated by dividing the body weight in kilograms by the height in metres  squared. The normal spread of the body mass index is from 20 to 25 kg/m2. 
What is morbid obesity? It is relative weight greater than 200% and is associated with a ten-fold increase in  
mortality rate. 
ENDOCRINOLOGY ~SE 143 ~ 
Mention some adverse health consequences of obesity. Obese people have a greater risk for diabetes mellitus, stroke, coronary artery  
disease, premature mortality, thromboembolism, gallstones, reflux oesophagitis,  sleep apnoea, polycythaemia, and cancer of the colon, rectum, prostate, uterus,  breast and ovary. The risk of death from all causes is increased and the risk  associated with a high body mass index is greater for whites than blacks (N Engl J  Med 1999; 341: 1097-105). Also, higher maternal weight before pregnancy  increases the risk of late fetal death although it protects against delivery of a  small-for-gestational age infant (N Engl J Med 1998; 338: 147-52). 
What patterns of obesity correlate with premature coronary artery disease? Central obesity (abdomen and flank) and when there is excessive visceral fat within  
the abdominal cavity rather than subcutaneous fat around the abdomen. 
How would you manage such patients? ·    Multidisciplinary approach to weight loss: hypocaloric diets, exercise, social  
support. 
·    Drugs: orlistat (orlistat partially inhibits the absorption of dietary fat by binding to  
pancreatic lipase in the gastrointestinal tract) (Lancet 1998; 352: 167-73). 
·    Surgery: vertical banded gastroplasty, gastric bypass operations. What are the mechanisms of obesity? · Insensitivity to leptin, presumably in the hypothalamus. · Neuropeptide Y-induced hyperphagia. · Deficiency of production or action of anorexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptides. ·  
Increased secretion of insulin and glucocorticoid. 
·    Mutation in the gene for PPAR-¥ accelerates differentiation of adipocytes and may  
cause obesity (N Engl J Med 1998; 339: 953-9). PPAR-¥ is peroxisome  proliferator-activated receptor-¥ and is a nuclear receptor through which the  thiazolidinedione class of antidiabetic drugs acts. 
Mention some syndromes in which obesity is a prominent feature. Cushing's syndrome (see pp 385-7), Laurence-Moon-Biedl syndrome (see pp 536,  
537), pickwickian syndrome (see pp 290-1), Alstrom's syndrome, Prader-Willi  syndrome. 
What is the link between obesity and diabetes? Fat cells release free fatty acids and tumour necrosis factor-alpha which cause insulin  
resistance, and leptin causes insulin sensitivity. A new protein called resistin that is  secreted by fat cells causes insulin resistance. A group of antidiabetic drugs, the  thiazolidinediones, reduces insulin resistance by suppressing the expression of  resistin by the fat cells (Nature 2001; 409: 307-12). 
INSTRUCTION Examine this patient. Look at this patient's face. SALIENT FEATURES History ·    History of steroid therapy. ·    Central weight gain. ·    Hirsutism (see pp 428-31). ·    Easy braising. ·    Acne. ·    Weakness of muscle. ·    Menstrual disturbance. ·    Loss of libido. ·    Depression, sleep disturbances. ·    Back pain due to spinal osteoporosis. Examination Moon-like facies (Fig. 3), acne, hirsutism and plethora (due to telangiectasia). Proceed as follows: · Examine the following: -The mouth for superimposed thrush. -The interscapular area for 'buffalo hump'. -Increased fat pads and bulge above supraclavicular fossae (more specific for Cushing's syndrome). -The abdomen for thinning of skin and purple striae (also seen over the shoulders and thighs) - said to be present on almost all patients (Fig. 4). 
-The limbs for bruising, wasting of the limbs, weakness of the muscles of the 
shoulders and hips - get the patient to squat (proximal myopathy). -Ask the patient whether she has back pain and then examine the spine, looking for  
evidence of osteoporosis and collapse of vertebra, kyphoscoliosis. 
-Measure the blood pressure. · Tell the examiner you would like to: -Test the urine for glucose. -Check visual fields (for pituitary tumour). -Examine the fundus for optic atrophy, papilloedema, signs of hypertensive or  
diabetic retinopathy. 
Note. Hirsutism is not common in Cushing's syndrome caused by exogenous steroids  
because they suppress adrenal androgen secretion. 
Also comment on signs of asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, fibrosing alveolitis (as  
these are conditions that are treated with long-term steroids). 
DIAGNOSIS This patient has moon-like facies, acne and supraclavicular pads of fat (lesions),  
which are features of Cushing's syndrome caused by long-term steroid therapy  (aetiology) for asthma. The patient is now steroid dependent and is disabled by  proximal myopathy and kyphoscoliosis due to osteoporosis (functional status). 
QUESTIONS Mention some causes of Cushing's syndrome. · Steroids, including adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). · Pituitary adenoma (Cushing's disease). · Adrenal adenoma. · Adrenal carcinoma. · Ectopic ACTH (usually by small cell carcinoma of the lung). What is the difference between Cushing's disease and Cushing's syndrome ? Cushing's disease is increased production by the adrenals secondary to excess  
pituitary ACTH, whereas Cushing's syndrome is caused by excess steroid from  any cause. 
How would you investigate such a patient  (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1999; 84:  
440-8) ? 
Tests to confirm the diagnosis ·    24-hour urinary free cortisol: this is the most direct and reliable practical index of  
cortisol secretion. The reason is that plasma concentrations of corticotrophins and  cortisol fall and rise episodically, in normal subjects, in Cushing's syndrome and in  ectopic ACTH syndrome. 
·    Overnight dexamethasone test. ·    Plasma cortisol. 
Tests to determine the site of hormone  production 
·    Low- and high-dose dexamethasone test: low-dose dexamethasone fails to  
suppress urinary steroid secretion in Cushing's disease whereas high-dose  dexamethasone (2 mg q6h for 2 days) suppresses at least 50% of urinary steroid  secretion. 
·    CXR for carcinoma of the bronchus. ·    Plain radiograph of the abdomen for adrenal calcification. ·    Ultrasonography of the abdomen for adrenal tumours. ·    If Cushing's disease is suspected: -Plasma ACTH, radiography of pituitary, MRI gadolinium enhancement, and bilateral measurement of corticotrophin in the inferior petrosal sinus.  
-Corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) test (helpful in distinguishing 
pituitary-led Cushing's disease from ectopic corticotrophin secretion). ·    Inferior petrosal sinus sampling is used to distinguish primary and ectopic sources  
of ACTH when the source of the ACTH is not obvious based on clinical  circumstances, biochemical evaluation and imaging studies. 
How would you manage Cushing's syndrome? ·    Cushing's disease: trans-sphenoidal microadenomectomy, pituitary irradiation,  
total bilateral adrenalectomy. 
·    Adrenal tumour: surgical resection, mitotane therapy, resection of recurrent  
tumour. 
·    Ectopic ACTH: surgical resection of tumour. ·    Taper corticosteroid therapy. ADVANCED-LEVEL QUESTIONS What is pseudo-Cushing's syndrome? In chronic alcoholics and patients with depression there may be increased urinary  
excretion of steroids, absent diurnal variation of plasma steroids and a positive  over-night dexamethasone test. All these investigations return to normal on  discon-tinuation of alcohol or improvement of emotional status. 
What do you know about Nelson's syndrome? It is a syndrome that occurs after bilateral adrenalectomy and is characterized by a  
rapidly growing pituitary adenoma, very high ACTH levels and hyperpigmentation.  As the incidence may be as high as 50%, patients with Cushing's disease who  have undergone adrenalectomy should be followed by regular plasma ACTH levels  and imaging for pituitary tumours. 
Harvey Williams Cushing (1869-1939) was Professor of Surgery at Harvard. He was  
awarded the Pulitzer Prize for his biography of Osier (Cushing H 1932 The  basophil adenomas of the pituitary body and their clinical manifestation. Bull Johns  Hopkins Hosp 1: 137). 
Christopher Edwards, contemporary Principal, Imperial College, London; his chief  
interest is metabolism of steroids. 
