Chest radiography (CXR)Standard posteroanterior and lateral chest radiographs detect pleural fluid in excess of 175 ml. Obliteration of costophrenic angle tohemithorax suggests fluid. Sub-pulmonic effusion can simulate an elevated diaphragm.Pleural tap·       Pleural fluid for determination of the levels of protein, albumin, LDH, glucose, cholesterol and cytology. A simultaneous bloodsample should be obtained for estimation of glucose, protein, albumin and LDH.·       When empyema is suspected or seen, pleural fluid pH should be obtained.·       When tuberculosis is suspected, pleural fluid adenosine deaminase or lysozyme levels should be determined andZiehl-Neelsen staining and pleural fluid myco-bacterial cultures should be done.·       Pleural fluid amylase levels should be estimated when malignancy, pancreatitis or oesophageal rupture is suspected.·       In autoimmune disorders, pleural fluid rheumatoid factor or antinuclear anti-bodies should be tested.P!eural biopsyThe biopsy specimen is sent for histopathological examination and mycobacterial culture.
· Pleural effusion.· Pleural thickening.· Consolidation and collapse of the lung.· Raised hemidiaphragm.
·       Pleural effusion: stony dull note; trachea may be deviated to the opposite side in large effusions.·       Pleural thickening: trachea not deviated; breath sounds will be heard.·       Consolidation: vocal resonance increased; bronchial breath sounds and associated crackles.·       Collapse: trachea deviated to the affected side; absent breath sounds.
·       The protein content of an exudate is more than 3 g/l. However, if this criterion alone is applied, about 10% of the exudates and15% of the transudates will be wrongly classified. A more accurate diagnosis is made when Light's criteria (Ann Intern Med1972; 77: 507-13) for an exudate are applied: (1) the ratio of the pleural fluid to serum protein is greater than 0.5; (2) the ratio ofpleural fluid to serum lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) is greater than 0.6; (3) pleural fluid LDH is greater than two thirds the uppernormal limit for blood LDH levels. Roth et al (1990) found that, althomzh Light's criteria had a sensitivity of 100%, they had alow specificity of 72% (Chest 1990; 98: 546-9). This was due to the fact that many patients with effusion due to chronic cardiacfailure have protein values inthe exudate range, particularly when on chronic diuretic therapy. They found that the serum-effusion albumin gradient (i.e. serumalbumin minus pleural fluid albumin) was 95% sensitive but a more specific (100%) marker of exudative effusion. A gradient of lessthan 1.2 g/dl indicates an exudative effusion whereas a gradient greater than 1.2 g/dl indicates a transudative effusion.·       The pleural fluid cholesterol level is below 60 mg/dl in transudates. All malignant effusions have a pleural cholesterol levelgreater than this value, and therefore this test is useful to separate these two categories of effusion (Chest 1987; 92: 296-302;Chest1991; 99: 1097-102).
Causes for an exudate: · Bronchogenic carcinoma (presence of effusion is an ominous sign).· Secondaries in the pleura (lung, breast, ovary and pancreas).· Pneumonia.· Pulmonary infarction.· Tuberculosis.· Rheumatoid arthritis.· SLE.· Lymphoma (in young individuals).· Mesothelioma. Causes of a transudate: · Nephrotic syndrome.· Cardiac failure.· Liver cell failure.· Hypothyroidism.
Empyema, malignancy, tuberculosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and oesophageal rupture.
This is of value in determining the prognosis (Ann Intern Med 1988; 108: 345-9).Patients with a low pleural fluid pH (<7.3) or low glucose concentration (<60 mg/dl) have a shorter life expectancy than those withhigher values: 2.1 months versus 9.8 months. The low pH group tends to have more extensive pleural involvement as determined bythoracoscopy and a higher failure rate for chemical pleurodesis.
· Pleural biopsy. ·CT chest scan.·       Magnetic resonance imaging of the chest: although this technique has limited value owing to motion artefacts caused bycardiac and respiratory movements,radiologists were able to differentiate transudates, simple exudates and complex exudates.
·       Pleural fluid usually contains about 1500 cells per gl (predominantly mono-nuclear cells). Counts above 50 000 are seen inparapneumonic effusions, whereas transudates usually have counts of less than 1000 cells per Itl.·       Pleural fluid eosinophilia, i.e. greater than 10%, suggests a benign disease, including pneumothorax, asbestos-relatedeffusions and post haemothorax, although malignancy cannot be excluded.·       Pleural fluid lymphocytosis is seen in about one third of transudates, in malignancy, tuberculosis, lymphoma, collagen vasculardiseases and sarcoidosis.·       Computerized interactive morphometry (analyses the size and nuclei of cells in a stained centrifuged specimen)differentiatesbetween malignant cells and reactive lymphocytosis. This method is particularly useful when differentiatingbetween benign reactive mesothelial cells and malignancy.
A pleural fluid glucose concentration of less than 40 mg/dl or a pH less than 7.0 indicates the need/¥r closed-tube drainage.
It suggests chylothorax and is seen most often in patients with lymphomas, solid tumours, nephrotic syndrome and cirrhosis, andoccasionally in rheumatoid arthritis.
A pleural fluid amylase level greater than the serum amylase concentration is seen in patients with pancreatitis, carcinoma, bacterialpneumonia and oesophageal rupture. In malignant effusions, when cytology cannot differentiate adenocarcinoma frommesothelioma, a raised amylase level suggests the presence of the former. Amylase-rich pleural effusions occur frequently, andpleural fluid isoamylase determination can be useful; the finding of a pleural effusion rich in salivary isoamylase should prompt anevaluation for carcinoma (particularly a lung primary), but may also be seen in other pleural inflammatory conditions (Chest 1992;102: 1455-9).
Possible causes include tuberculosis, collagen vascular diseases and tumours, including lymphoma.
·       Pleural fluid adenosine deaminase concentration (an enzyme involved in purine metabolism and found in T lymphocytes) ismarkedly raised in tuberculous and rheumatoid effusions compared with malignant effnsion·       Increased pleural fluid lysozyme concentration (muramidase) is used to differ-entiate tuberculosis, rheumatoid arthritis andempyema from malignant effusions.·       Combined use of the latter two tests yields a sensitivity and specificity of 100% for tuberculous et'tusions if empyema ~sexcluded.·       Gamma-interferon and soluble interleukin 2 receptor levels are also raised in tuberculous effusions compared with malignanteffusions.·       Estimation of pleural fluid rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibodies is useful in confirming the diagnosis of rheumatoid andlupus erythematosus respectively.
Haemorrhagic fluid is seen in malignancy, pulmonary embolus, tuberculosis and trauma to the chest.
The earliest radiological signs are blunting of the costophrenic angle on the anterior-posterior view or loss of clear definition of thediaphragm posteriorly on the lateral view.
Either by a lateral decubitus view (which shows a layering of the fluid along the dependent chest wall unless the fluid is loculated) orby ultrasonography.
Ultrasonography is also useful for loculated effusions, for guided thoracocentesis, closed pleural biopsy or insertion of a chest drain,and to differentiate pleural fluid from pleural thickening.
It is the accumulation of fluid between the major or minor fissure or along the lateral chest wall, and can be mistaken for a tumour onthe radiograph. Such loculated effusions can be confirmed with ultrasonography.
About 70% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis have pleural inflammation at autopsy and about 5% have radiological evidence ofpleural inflammation at some time. Pleural involvement is associated with male sex, rheumatoid factor in serum, the presence ofnodules and other systemic manifestations. The effusion is thought to develop as an inflammatory response to the presence ofmultiple subpleural nodules. For reasons that are entirely unclear, the left side is the more common site of unilateral rheumatoidpleural effusions. The pleural fluid glucose level is characteristically low and is said to be due to an 'entrance block' in which glucoseis unable to enter the pleural space, unlike in empyema and malignant effusions where the low pleural fluid glucose concentration isattributed to the increased use of glucose by cells. Cytological appearances of slender and elongated macrophages, round giantmultinucleated macrophages, presence of very few mesothelial cells and necrotic background material are thought to bepathognomonic of rheumatoid pleuritis.
Pneumothorax, haemothorax, intravascular collapse and unilateral pulmonary oedema (the latter after withdrawal of large quantitiesof fluid).
Meigs' syndrome comprises pleural effusion (usually right-sided and a transudate) associated with ovarian tumours (usually benignovarian fibroma).
Practolol, procarbazine, methysergide, bromocriptine, methotrexate                          andnitrofurantoin.
It is most likely that this patient has malignant mesothelioma. If' the diagnosis is confirmed, I would advise him to apply for industrialinjuries benefit.
There are three main mechanisms:·       An abnormality of the pleura itself, such as a neoplasm or inflammatory process, usually associated with increasedpermeability.·       Disruption of the integrity of a fluid-containing structure within the pleural cavity, such as the thoracic duct, oesophagus, majorblood vessels or tracheobronchial tree, with leakage of the contents into the pleural space.·       Abnormal hydrostatic or osmotic forces operating on an otherwise normal pleural surface and producing a transudate.
· Full blood count.· Sputum cultures.· Blood gases.· ECG.· CXR. Ventilation-perfusion scan.
In acute pulmonary embolism the area of decreased perfusion usually has normal ventilation, whereas in pneumonia there areabnormalities in both the ventilation and perfusion scan.
· Initially with heparin and then with oral anticoagulants for at least 3 months.· Pain relief for pleurisy.
These include: · Sinus tachycardia. · Tall R wave in lead VI. · SI, S2, S3 syndrome (S waves in limb leads I, II and III). · S 1, Q3, T3 syndrome (S in limb lead I and Q wave and inverted T wave in limb lead III)
· Infection.· Emotion.· Exercise.· Drugs, e.g. beta-blockers.· External allergens.
Asthma is an inflammatory disorder characterized by hyper-responsiveness of the airway to various stimuli, resulting in widespreadnarrowing of the airway. The changes are reversible, either sp~mtaneou,;ly or as a resnh of therapy
Intrinsic asthma is of non-allergic aetiology and usually begins after the age of 30 years. It tends to be more continuous and moresevere: status asthmaticus is common in this group.
Extrinsic asthma has a clearly defined history of allergy to a variety of inhaled factors and is characterized by a childhood onset andseasonal variation.
· Sleep is disturbed by wheeze.· Morning tightness persists until midday.· Symptoms and peak expiratory flows progressively deteriorate each day.· Maximum treatment with bronchodilators.· Emergency nebulizers are needed.
Early treatment with inhaled budesonide results in long-lasting control of mild asthma (i.e. FEV~ more than 85% of predicted value).Maintenance therapy can usually be given at a reduced dose, but discontinuation of treatment is often accom-panied byexacerbation of the disease.
· Nebulized beta-agonists, e.g. terbutaline or salbutamol.· Oxygen, using a high concentration.· High-dose steroids: intravenous hydrocortisone or oral prednisolone or both.· Blood gases.· CXR to rule out pneumothorax.When life-threatening features are present:·       Add ipratropium to nebulized beta-agonist.·       Intravenous aminophylline or salbutamol or terbutaline.
·       Step 1: Inhaled short-acting beta-agonists used as required for symptom relief. If required more than once, go to step 2.·       Step 2: Step I plus regular inhaled anti-inflammatory agents (such as beclomethasone, budesonide, cromoglicate or nedocromilsodium).·       Step 3: Step I plus high-dose inhaled steroids (using a large-volume spacer) or low-dose inhaled steroids plus a long-actinginhaled beta-agonist bronchodilator.·       Step 4: Step I plus high-dose inhaled steroids and regular bronchodilators (long-acting inhaled or oral beta-agonists,sustained-release theophylline, inhaled ipratropium).·       Step 5: Step 4 plus addition of oral steroids.Patients should be started on treatment at the step most appropriate to the initial severity. A rescue course of prednisolone may beneeded at any time and at any step. Stepwise reduction in treatment should be undertaken after the asthma has been stable over a3-6-month period.
· Inability to complete a sentence in one breath.· Respiration rate greater than 25 per minute.· Pulse rate greater than 110 beats per minute.· Peak expiratory flow rate less than 50% of predicted or best.
· Peak expiratory flow rate less than 33% of predicted or best.· Exhaustion, confusion, coma.· Silent chest, cyanosis or feeble respiratory effort.· Bradycardia or hypotension.Note. Arterial blood gases should be measured if anyof these features are present or if oxygen saturation is less than 92%.
· Normal (5-6 kPa, 36-45 mmHg) or increased carbon dioxide tension.· Severe hypoxia of less than 8 kPa (60 mmHg).· Low pH.
It is a poor guide to the severity of acute asthma as it compares poorly with the measurement of peak flow.
Chronic obstructive airway disease, left ventricular failure (cardiac asthma), poly-arteritis nodosa, eosinophilic lung disease,recurrent thromboembolism, tumour causing localized wheeze.
· Worsening hypoxia (Pao2<8 kPa) despite 60% inspired oxygen.· Hypercapnia (Pace2 >6 kPa).· Drowsiness.· Unconsciousness.
Chronic bronchitis is cough with mucoid expectoration for at least 3 months in a year for 2 successive years.
Emphysema is the abnormal permanent enlargement of the airway distal to the terminal respiratory bronchioles with destruction oftheir walls. Clinical, radiological and lung function tests give an imprecise picture in an individual case but a com-bination of all thesefeatures gives a reasonable picture.
The term COAD encompasses chronic obstructive bronchitis (with obstruction of small airways) and emphysema (with destruction of lung parenchyma, loss of lung elasticity, and closure of small airways). Most patients also have mucus plugging.
t is a variable mixture of loss of alveolar attachments, inflammatory obstruction of the airway and luminal obstruction with mucus.
Macrophages and epithelial cells in airways are activated by cigarette smoke and other irritants and release neutrophil chemotactic factors including interleukin-8 and leukotriene B4. Neutrophils and macrophages then release proteases that break down connective tissue in the lung parenchyma, resulting in emphysema, and also stimulate hypersecretion of bronchial mucus. The chronic inflammatory process in COPD differs markedly from that seen in bronchial asthma, with different inflam-matory cells, mediators, inflammatory effects and responses to treatment (Thorax 1998: 53:129 36; Chest 2000; 117 (suppl): 10S-14S).
It is the most sensitive (but expensive) technique for the diagnosis of emphysema. It is useful in evaluating symptomatic patients with almost normal pulmonary function except for a low carbon monoxide diffusing capacity - a combination of findings that occurs in emphysema, interstitial lung disease and pulmonary vascular disease (Radiology 1992; 182:817-21 ).
Cyanosis Dyspnoea Hyperinflation Cor pulmonale Respiratory drive Emphysema Pink puffer Absent ++ ++ - High Chronic bronchitis Blue bloater Prominent + + Common Low
Smoking, alpha-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency.
· Nebulized bronchodilators (terbutaline, ipratropium bromide). · Intravenous antibiotics (BMJ 1994; 308:871 2), initially amoxicillin and, if there is no clinical response, then a second-generation cephalosporin, quinoline or co-amoxiclav. · Oxygen (24%). · Intravenous hydrocortisone and oral steroids. (Note. Steroid therapy is useful only in acute exacerbations and, unlike in asthma, it does not influence the course of chronic bronchitis.)
Inhaled steroids are recommended for symptomatic patients with moderate to severe COAD and for patients with frequent exacerbations but not for patients with mild COAD (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1960-1). Budenoside, fluticasone and triamcinolone were studied in long-term clinical trials (N Engl J Med 1999; 340: 1948-53; Lancet 1999; 353: 1819-23; BMJ 2000: 320: 1297-303) and all were similar except that triamcinolone has deleterious effects on bone density (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1902-9).
Haemophilus infiuenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae are the commonest organisms identified in the sputum during exacerbations of COAD, accounting for 43% and 25% respectively of positive cultures in one study. Moraxella (previously Branhamella) catarrhalis is also frequently isolated from sputum during exacer-bations. Less commonly, Chlamydia pneumoniae or Pseudomonas aeruginosa have been associated with some exacerbations.
COAD: forced expiratory volume in I second (FEV1) less than 1.5 litres; forced vital capacity (FVC) less than 2 litres; stable chronic respiratory failure (Pao2 <7.3 kPa, that is, 55 mmHg) in patients who have (1) had peripheral oedema or (2) not necessarily had hypercapnia or oedema (N Engl J Med 1995; 333:710-14); carboxyhaemoglobin of less than 3% (i.e. patients who have stopped smoking). · Terminally ill patients of whatever cause with severe hypoxia (Pao2 <7.3 kPa).
By the use of either promethazine or dihydrocodeine.
If Pao2 is less than 8 kPa, administer 24% oxygen. There is no need for oxygen when Pao2 is greater than 8 kPa. Monitor blood gases after 30 minutes. If Pa02 is rising (by I kPa), monitor blood gases hourly. If Pao2 continues to rise, administer doxapram. If, in spite of this, the patient continues to deteriorate, artificial ventilation may be called for.
Non-invasive ventilation is an alternative approach to endotracheal intubation to treat hypercapnic ventilatory failure which occurs in COAD. It thus reduces the complications of endotracheal intubation such as infection and injury to the trachea. Non-invasive ventilation is pressure-support ventilation delivered with a face mask and a piece of white foam placed in the face mask to reduce the amount of internal dead space. In a recent randomized trial, non-invasive ventilation was shown to reduce the need for endotracheal intubation, length of hospital stay and in-hospital mortality rate in selected patients with acute exacerbations of COAD (N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 817-22).
ott-antitrypsin deficiency · It was first described in Sweden. The patient is deficient in alpha-antitrypsin, with activity approximately 15% that of the normal value; concentrations of 40% or more are required for health. The patient is homozygous for the protease inhibitor (Pi) ZZ gene. Other genetic combinations and their percentage normal activity are PiMS (80%), PiMZ (60%), PiSS (60%), PiSZ (40%). Six per cent of the population is heterozygous for S(PiMS) and 4% for Z(PiMZ), making an overall frequency of 1 in 10 for the carriage of the defective gene. Liver transplantation results in conversion to the genotype of the donor. · In the lung, alpha1-antitrypsin inhibits the excessive actions of neutrophil and macro-phage elastase, which cigarette smoke promotes. When the lung is heavily exposed to cigarette smoke, the protective effect of alpha 1-antitrypsin may be over-whelmed by the amount of elastase released or hy a direct oxidative action of cigarette smoke on the alpha 1 -antitrypsin molecule. The emphysema is panacinar and is seen in the lower lobes of the lungs. Smoking increases the severity and decreases the age of onset of emphysema. Liver disease is a much less common complication. Human alpha 1 -antltrypsm prepared from pooled plasma from normal donors is recommended for patients over 18 years with serum levels below 11 gmol/l and abnormal lung function. · The siblings of an index case should be screened for this disorder. Their identifi-cation should be followed by counselling to avoid smoking and occupations with atmospheric pollution. Children of homozygotes will inherit at least one Z gene and hence will be heterozygotes. They should avoid pairing with another heterozygote if they wish to avoid the risk of producing an affected homozygote. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha ) COAD is 10 times more common in Taiwanese with a polymorphism in the promoter region of the gene for TNF-alpha resulting in increased production of TNF-alpha (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1997; 156:136-9). However, the same polymorphism in the UK population is not associated with increased risk of COAD (Eur Respir J 2000; 15: 2814). Microsomal epoxide hydrolase A polymorphism variant of microsomal epoxide hydrolase, an enzyme involved in the metabolism of epoxides that may be generated in tobacco smoke, has been associated with a quintupling of the risk of COAD (Lancet1997; 350: 663). 
· Bullectomy may improve gas exchange and airflow, and reduce dyspnoea in selected patients with bu]lae larger than one third of the hemithorax and accom-panying lung compression. · Lung-volume reduction surgery (N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 239-45) results in functional improvements including increased FEV1, reduced total lung capacity, improved function of respiratory muscles, improved exercise capacity and improved quality of life (J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1999; 112: 1319-29; Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999; 160: 2018-27). These benefits persist for at least a year but the long-term benefits are not known and are currently being investigated by the National Emphysema Treatment Trial Group (Chest 1999; 116: 1750-61). · Single lung transplantation: this has been successful for at least 34 years in patients with COAD. The criteria for selecting patients for transplantation have not been established. It does not improve survival but improves quality of life (J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1991; 101: 623-32).
The general indication is end-stage lung disease without alternative forms of therapy. Patients should be below 60 years of age and should have a life expectancy of less than 12 or 18 months; they should not have an underlying cancer or other serious systemic illness. The most common lung diseases are pulmonary fibrosis, emphysema (particularly alpha 1 -antitrypsin deficiency), bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and primary pulmonary hypertension.
Undernutrition is associated with reduced respiratory muscle function and an increased mortality rate. A high dietary intake of n-3 fatty acids may protect cigarette smokers against COAD.
· Antagonists of inflammatory mediators: 5-1ipoxygenase inhibitors, leukotriene B4 antagonists, interleukin-8 antagonists, tumour necrosis factor inhibitors and antioxidants. · Protease inhibitors: neutrophil elastase inhibitors, cathepsin inhibitors, non-selective matrix metalloprotease inhibitors, elafin, secretory leukoprotease inhibitor, alpha 1-antitrypsin. · New anti-inflammatory agents: phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors, nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitors, adhesion molecule inhibitors and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors
It is a chronic necrotizing infection of the bronchi and bronchioles leading to abnormal, permanent dilatation of the airways.
· Postpneumonic, measles, pertussis, tuberculosis (TB).· Mechanical bronchial obstruction, as in TB, carcinoma, nodal compression.· Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.· T-Globulin deficiency congenital, acquired.· Immotile cilia syndrome (Kartagener's syndrome).· Cystic fibrosis.· Neuropathic disorders (namely Riley-Day syndrome, Chagas' disease).· Idiopathic.
FBC, sputum culture, CXR, bronchography, CT scan of the chest.
High-resolution CT performed at the end of expiration suggests that small airways disease may be an early feature ofbronchiectasis, which leads to more progressive injury and bronchiolar distortion. Larger studies with long-term follow-up arerequired to confirm this. Conventional CT has a sensitivity of 60-80% for detecting bronchiectasis, whereas high-resolution CT has asensitivity of more than 90%, using bronchography as the 'gold standard'.
In standard CT the resolution is 10 mm thick whereas with high-resolution CT the slices are 1-2 mm thick and high spatial resolution algorithms are used to recon-struct images (Radiology 1994; 193:369 74).
This is a rapidly evolving technique to image the chest which has the advantage of truly contiguous sections; consequently completely seamless reconstructions are possible. This may allow virtual-reality bronchoscopy imaging
· Pneumonia, pleurisy, pleural effusion, pneumothorax. · Sinusitis. · Haemoptysis. · Brain abscess. · Amyloidosis.
Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus infiuenzae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
· Postural drainage. · Antibiotics. · Bronchodilators. · Surgery in selected cases.
· Congenital absence of bronchial cartilage (Williams-Campbell syndrome). · Tracheobronchomegaly (Mounier-Kuhn syndrome). · Obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinopulmonary infection (Young's syndrome), said to be due to mercury intoxication. It was first described from the north of England by Young in 1970. · Congenital kyphoscoliosis. · Situs inversus and paranasal sinusitis (Kartagener's syndrome). · Unilateral absence of pulmonary artery. 
Bronchiectasis localized to a single lobe or segment without clinical, broncho-graphic or CT evidence of bronchiectasis or bronchitis affecting other parts of the lung.
Left lower lobe and lingula.
Bronchiectasis or 'dry' bronchiectasis is that which presents with recurrent dry cough associated with intermittent episodes (months or years apart) of haemoptysis. The haemoptysis can be life threatening as bleeding is from bronchial vessels with systemic pressures. There is usually a past history of granulomatous infection, particularly tuberculosis. The upper lobes are often primarily affected, allowing good drainage.
The bronchial dilatation occurs in more proximal bronchi as a result of type Ill immune complex reactions.
In 1950, Reid correlated pathological changes with bronchography and described three different appearances. All three types can be present in the same patient. · Cylindrical bronchiectasis: refers to bronchi that are uniformly dilated and do not taper, but rather end abruptly. This is due to plugging of smaller bronchi by thick mucus and casts. The bronchi are dilated to greater than 2 mm but can be so large as to admit a finger. · Varicose bronchiectasis: refers to dilated bronchi with irregular bulging contours similar to a varicose vein. They do not taper and terminations are bulbous. Bronchial subdivisions are reduced. · Cystic or saccular bronchiectasis: the most severe form, characterized by sharply reduced bronchial subdivisions and dilated bronchi ending in cystic pus-filled cavities.
Cor pulmonale is right ventricular enlargement due to the increase in afterload that occurs in diseases of the lung, chest wall orpulmonary circulation.
Respiratory disorders':· Obstructive:- COAD.-Chronic persistent asthma.· Restrictive: -Intrinsic - interstitial fibrosis, lung resection.- Extrinsic - obesity, muscle weakness, kyphoscoliosis, high altitude.Pulmonary vascular disorders:· Puhnonary emboli.· Vasculitis of the small pulmonary arteries.· Adult respiratory distress syndrome.· Primary pulmonary hypertension.
· Treat the underlying cause.·       Treat respiratory failure. If Pao, is less than 8 kPa, administer 24% oxygen. There is no need for oxygen if Pa(), is more than 8kPa. Monitor blood gases after 30 minutes. If PCO2, is rising (by I kPa), monitor blood gases hourly. If Pc(): continues to rise,administer doxapram. If, in spite of this, the deterioration continues, the patient may merit artificial ventilation.·       Treat cardiac failure with furosemide (frusemide).·       Consider venesection if the haematocrit is more than 55% (Lancet 1989; ii: 20 1 ).
Approximately 50% of patients succumb within 5 years.
· Bacterial pneumonia.· Bronchogenic carcinoma.· Pulmonary infarct.
· Full blood count, serum urea, electrolytes and liver function tests.· Sputum and blood cultures.· Arterial blood gases.· CXR.·       Test for Legionella (culture, direct fluorescent-antibody test, or urinary antigen assay), mycoplasma immunoglobulin M.·       Consider serological testing for human immunodeficiency virus (for patients 15-54 years old, particularly when there islymphopenia or a low CD4 cell count).
· Carcinoma of the lung.· Aspiration of a foreign body.· Inappropriate antibiotic.· Sequestration (rare; suspect if left lower lobe is involved).
Typical pneumonia is caused by pneumococcus (Streptococcus pneumoniae), whereas atypical pneumonia is that not due topneumococcus; the latter may be caused by Mycoplasma, Legionel/a, Chlamydia, Coxiella, etc. The clinical picture in atypicalpneumonia is dominated by constitutional symptoms, such as fever and headache, rather than respiratory symptoms.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae is an important cause of atypical pneumonia, it is an important community-acquired pneumonia andepidemics are seen every 4 years or so. Its incubation is 2-3 weeks and it is usually seen in children and young adults. Reinfectioncan occur in older patients with detectable M. pneumoniae antibody. Like all other pneumonias, mycoplasma pneumonia is commonin winter months.
· Arthralgia and arthritis.· Autoimmune haemolytic anaemia.· Neurological manifestations involving both central and peripheral nervous systems. · Pericarditis, myocarditis.· Hepatitis, glomerulonephritis.· Non-specific rash, erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.· Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).
· Septicaemia.· Lung abscess.· Empyema.· Adult respiratory distress syndrome.· Multiorgan failure, renal failure.· Haemolytic syndrome.· Death.
The British Thoracic Society recommends that empirical therapy 'should always cover' Strep. pneumoniae. The preferred regimen isamoxicillin or penicillin; whenLegionella or M. pneumoniae is specifically suspected, erythromycin should be gwen, and antibiotics directed againstStaphylococcus aureus should be considered during epidemics of influenza.
· Age over 65 years.·       Coexisting conditions such as cardiac failure, renal failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignancy.·       Clinical features: respiratory rate >30 per min, hypotension (systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg or diastolic pressure <60mmHg), temperature >38.3°C, impaired mental status (stupor, lethargy, disorientation or coma), extrapulmonary infection (e.g.septic arthritis, meningitis).·       Investigations: haematocrit <30%, white cell count <4000 or >30 000 per mm3,azotaemia, arterial blood gas <60 mmHg whilebreathing room air, chest radio-graph showing multiple lobe involvement, rapid spread or pleural effusion.·       Microbial pathogens: Staph. aureus, Legionella, Strep. pneumoniae.
Crofton et al described five classes of pulmonary eosinophilic disorder (Thorax 1952; 7: 1-35):·       L6ffler's syndrome: characterized by transient pulmonary infiltrates and peri-pheral eosinophilia. It is associated with parasiticinfections, drug allergies and exposure to inorganic chemicals such as nickel carbonyl. The course is benign and respiratoryfailure almost unknown.·       Eosinophilia in asthmatics: the most common cause is allergic broncho-pulmonary aspergillosis. This condition is benign butchronic.·       Tropical eosinophilia which is secondary to filarial infection (Wuchereria bancrofti or W. malayi Brug).·       Churg Strauss syndrome. Diagnosis requires four of the following features: asthma; eosinophilia greater than 10%;mononeuropathy or polyneuropathy; paranasal sinus abnormality; non-fixed pulmonary infiltrates visible on chest radiographs;blood vessels with extravascular eosinophils found on biopsy.·       Chronic eosinophilic pneumonia: chronic debilitating illness characterized by malaise, fever, weight loss and dyspnoea. Thechest radiograph shows a peri-pheral alveolar filling infiltrate predominantly in the upper lobes (the 'photo-graphic negative' ofpulmonary oedema).
It is an uncommon congenital lesion in which a portion of non-functioning lung tissue is detached from the normal lung and suppliedby an anomalous systemic artery, usually arising from the aorta or one of its branches. The tissue has no communication with thebronchopulmonary tree. Two types of sequestration have been described: extralobar and intralobar. An extralobar sequestration hasits own pleural lining, which separates it from the remaining lung tissue, and the intralobar type shares its pleura with the adjacentnormal lung. Patients usually present in childhood with cough and recurrent pneumonia, and occasionally present with haemoptysis.
·       Cough (in 80% of cases), haemoptysis (70%) and dyspnoea (60%); loss of weight, anorexia.·       Skeletal manifestations: clubbing (in 30% of cases).·       Local pressure effects: recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, superior vena caval obstruction, Homer's syndrome.·       Endocrine manifestations: 12% of tumours - in particular small cell tumours -present with syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretichormone (SIADH), hyper-calcaemia, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion, gynaecomastia. SIADH does not usuallycause symptoms. When Cushing's syndrome occurs the manifestations are primarily metabolic (hypokalaemic alkalosis).·       Neurological manifestations: Eaton-Lambert syndrome, cerebellar degeneration, polyneuropathy, dementia, proximalmyopathy, encephalomyelitis, subacute sensory neuropathy, limbic encephalitis, opsoclonus and myoclonus.·       Cardiovascular: thrombophlebitis migrans, atrial fibrillation, pericarditis, non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis.·       Cutaneous manifestations: dermatomyositis, acanthosis nigricans, herpes zoster.·       Anaemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Hypercoagulopathy in the form ofvenous thromboembolism is seen, especially with adenocarcinoma.·       Membranous glomerulonephritis.
·       Sputum cytology: high yield for endobronchial tumours such as squamous cell and small cell carcinoma but poor yield foradenocarcinoma.·       CXR.·       Pleural fluid cytology.·       Bronchoscopy gives a high yield in excess of 90%, particularly when the tumour is viewed endobronchially. For tumours thatare not visualized , the yield for washing and brushing is about 75% in central lesions and 55% in peripheral lesions. The yieldin small-cell and squamous cell carcinomas is higher than in adenocarcinomas.·       CT scan of the chest and upper abdomen (to image the liver and adrenals).·       Bone scan for metastases (helpful in staging).·       PET scanning is highly sensitive and specific for mediastinal staging.·       Pulmonary function tests (most surgeons aim for a FEV1 of about I litre after planned resection); a DLCO below 60% predictedis associated with a mortality rate as high as 25% due to respiratory complications.
The main aim of staging is to identity candidates for surgical resection, since this approach offers the highest potential cure for lungcancer. The staging assessment covers three major issues: distant metastases, the state of the chest and media-stinum, and thecondition of the patient.
Surgery is beneficial in peripheral non-small cell carcinoma. Its role is limited in small cell carcinoma, as over 90% havemetastasized by the time of diagnosis.
Small cell carcinoma: cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, cisplatin, etoposide and vincristine are some of the drugs used. Thecombination of etoposide and cisplatin appears to have the best therapeutic index of any regimen. A meta-analysis of the role ofchemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancers suggested that the benefits are small.
· Old agents: cisplatin, carboplatin, etoposide, vinblastine, vindesine.· Newer agents: docetaxel, paclitaxel, irinotecan, vinorelbine, gemcitabine.
· Pain - either local or metastatic.· Breathlessness due to bronchial obstruction.· Dysphagia.· Haemoptysis.· Superior venal caval obstruction.· Pancoast's tumour.· Before and after operation in selected patients.
· Metastatic carcinoma.· FEVtless than 1.5 litres.· Transfer factor less than 50%.· Severe pulmonary hypertension.· Uncontrolled major cardiac arrhythmias.· Carbon dioxide retention.· Myocardial infarction in the past 3 months.
Yes: it is accompanied by a mutation in the p53 gene and loss of a portion of' the short arm of chromosome 3 in small cell cancer;the functional significance of this is not clear.Robert Souhami, Professor of Clinical Oncology, University College and Middlesex School of Medicine, London.
Males are sterile owing to the failure of development of the vas deferens and epididymis.
Neonates Recurrent chest infections, failure to thrive, meconium ileus and rectal prolapse.In childhood and young adults·       Respiratory: infection, bronchiectasis, pneumothorax, haemoptysis, nasal polyps, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis,deterioration during and after pregnancy.·       Cardiovascular: cur pulmonale.·       Gastrointestinal: rectal prolapse, distal ileal obstruction (meconium ileus equivalent), cirrhosis, gallstones, intussusception.·       Miscellaneous: male infertility, diabetes mellitus, hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy.
· Low-fat diet.· Pancreatic supplements.· H2-receptor antagonist.
· Postural drainage.· Antibiotics.· Bronchodilators.· Heart-lung transplantantion.
Physiotherapy has been shown to be useful, but there remains considerable debate regarding the effectiveness of differenttechniques including traditional postural drainage and percussion, forced expiratory technique, positive expiratory pressure masks,autodrainage and flutter valves.
Autosomal recessive. On the long arm of chromosome 7 resides the gene coding for a 1480-amino-acid protein a cyclicAMP-regulated chloride channel, now called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductor regulator (CFTR). The CFTR gene iscarried by I in 20 Caucasians and its incidence is about 1 in 2000 live births. There is a mutation on the long arm of chromosome 7in 70% of patients. There is a deletion of the codon for phenylalanine at position 508 (A508; N Engl J Med 1990; 323:1517). Thisdetect leads to a failure of the chloride channel to open in response to cyclic AMP (Science 1992; 256: 774-9: N Engl d Med 1991;325: 575-7). More than 175 other types of lesion in the cystic fibrosis gene are responsible for the disease in the remaining 30% ofpatients.
lmmunoreactive trypsin assay in dried blood.
A sweat sodimn concentration over 60 mmol/l is indicative of cystic fibrosis. It identifies over 75% by the age of 2 years and about95% by the age of 12 years. It is more difficult to interpret in older children and adults.
The opening of chloride channels at the luminal surface of the airway epithelial cells in normal individuals allows the passivetransport of chloride along an electro-chemical gradient from the cytoplasm to the lumen. In patients with cystic fibrosisthere is a defect in these channels which prevents the normal secretion of chloride into the airway lumen. Simultaneously, there is athree-fold increase in the reabsorp-tion of sodium from the airway lumen into the cytoplasm of the epithelial cell. As the movement ofwater into airway secretions follows the movement of salt, it is believed that a decreased secretion of chloride into the airway lumenand the increased reabsorption of sodium from the airway lumen combine to reduce water content and increase the viscosity andtenacity of the airway secretions.
Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Burkholderia cepacia and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The latter is associated withpoor prognosis as this organism is almost impossible to eradicate.
Intravenous or aerosol carbenicillin and gentamicin incombination.
The overall risk of cancer is similar to that of the general population, but there is an increased risk of digestive tract cancers (N EnglJ Med 1995; 332: 494-9). Persistent or unexplained gastrointestinal symptoms in these patients ought to be investigated carefully.
The median age of survival is currently in the early 30s. It is estimated that at least half of those with cystic fibrosis will be adults bythe year 2000.
Death occurs from pulmonary complications, such as pneumonia, pneumothorax or haemoptysis, or as a result of terminal chronicrespiratory failure.
Prediction of death within 2 years can be made for 50% of the patients whose forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) is lessthan 30%. Thus the necessity for referral for transplantation can be anticipated about 1 year in advance of death (N Engl J Med1992; 326: l 187-91).
The aim is to sustain life by aggressive therapy with nocturnal oxygen, continuous intravenous antibiotics, enteral feeding,respiratory stimulants and nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (Eur Respir J 1991; 4: 524-7).
Bilateral lung transplantation is necessary for patients with chronic bronchial infection such as cystic fibrosis (or bronchiectasis) toavoid contamination of the donor lung by spill-over of infected material from the recipient's remaining lung (J Thorac CardiovascSurg 1992; 103: 287-94).
Early post-transplantation lung oedema, infection and rejection (including obliterative bronchiolitis).
Combined heart-lung transplantation has relatively few indications, the primary one being congenitalheart disease with Eisenmenger syndrome.
· High-dose ibuprofen in patients with mild disease (FEVi of at least 60% of the predicted value), taken consistently for 4 years,significantly slows the progression of lung disease without serious adverse effects (N Engl J Med 1995; 332: 848-54).·       Aerosolized recombinant human DNAse, which is capable of degrading DNA in the bronchial secretion, has been shown toimprove forced expiratory flow rates when given by aerosol (N Engl J Med 1994; 331: 637-42).·       Gene therapy: the gene is transferred in a 'carder' (either in a cationic lipid envelope known as a liposome (Nat Med1995; 1:39-46), or in an adenovirus). On trans-ferdng the gene for cystic fibrosis to the nasal epithelium using a cationic liposome, thedeficit was partly restored without provoking a local inflammatory response.·       Improvement of the hydration of secretion:- By blocking the reabsorption of sodium from the airway lumen with amiloride. -By stimulating the secretion of chloride withtriphosphate nucleotides (ATP oruridine triphosphate) through nucleotide receptors by a pathway independent of cylic AMP metabolism (N Engl J Med 1991;322:1189-94).· Immunization to various components of Pseudomonas.
·       The couple will be offered genetic counselling and the man will be offered testing to determine his genetic status. If he is acarrier, chorionic villous sampling will be considered as the risk of the couple conceiving an infant with cystic fibrosis is I in 2and they may wish to consider selective termination in the first trimester. The hazards of general anaesthesia (as lung functionis impaired) for termination of pregnancy will be brought to their attention. Termination of pregnancy either with spinalanaesthesia or medications is an alternative.·       Women with severe disease will be informed that they may be unable to complete pregnancy and that their premature demisemay leave a motherless child.·       In women with an FEVj less than 60% of the predicted value there is an increased risk of premature delivery, an increased rateof caesarean section, some loss of lung function and risk of respiratory complications, and early death of the mother (BMJ1995; 311: 822-3).·       Pregnancy after heart-lung transplantation offers better health and increased longevity in the mother, but the risk of organrejection and exposure of the fetus to potentially teratogenic immunosuppressants means that pregnancy should not beattempted by women with transplants.
Increasingly, with the availability of neonatal screening with immunoreactive trypsin and thorough diagnosis by genetic studies,milder forms of disease have been recognized without the increase in sweat sodium. It is predicted that a con-siderable number ofpatients will present with a pattern of disease in adult life that has not been recognized in the past as being due to cystic fibrosis.<;ir 1~4nnrli 14 ¥nrn,,h rnnt~mnnrnn/ I:n~/ntinn-hnrn rarcllnthnrncir ~lirnpnn nt Hnr~fi~ldHospital, London, popularized cardiac transplantation in the UK.The first successful pregnancy in a woman with cystic fibrosis was reported in 1960.
· Bronchogenic carcinoma (crackles are localized).· Bronchiectasis (coarse crackles).· Asbestosis (history of exposure to asbestos).
These include metal dust (steel, brass, lead); wood dust (pine); wood smoke and smoking.
·       Rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, dermatomyositis, chronic active hepatitis, ulcerative colitis, systemic sclerosis.·       Pneumoconiosis.·       Granulomatous disease: sarcoid, TB.·       Chronic pulmonary oedema.·       Radiotherapy.·       Lymphangitis carcinomatosa.·       Extrinsic allergic alveolitis: farmer's lung, bird fancier's lung.
Fibrosing alveolitis is characterized by the presence of connective tissue matrix proteins within the acinar regions of the lung inassociation with a variable cellular infiltrate within the alveoli and in the interstitium.
Liebow and Carrington (Liebow AA, Carrington CB 1969 The interstitial pneumonias. In: Simon M, Potchen EJ, LeMay M (eds)Frontiers of Pulmonary Radiology. Grune &Stratton, New York, pp 102-141) initially described five subgroups, depending onhistology, to which there has recently been an addition:·       Classical (usual) interstitial pneumonia (UIP), characterized by thickening of the alveolar interstitium by fibrous tissue andmononuclear cells; characteristically varying in severity from one focus to another. The mean survival is 2.8-5.6 years. Twelveper cent respond to steroids and spontaneous improvement does not occur.·       Desquamative interstitial pneumonia (DIP) where there is a marked accumulation of macrophages in the alveolar airspacesassociated with a relatively mild but uniform thickening of the interstitial space caused by mononuclear inflammatory cells. Themean survival is 12.4-14 years. The response to steroids is 62% and spontaneous improvement is 22%.·       Non-specific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP). The survival is 14 years and thera-peutic response is similar to DIP.·       A diffuse lesion similar to UIP but with superimposed bronchiolitis obliterans.·       Lymphoid interstitial pneumonia (LIP) in which there is marked infiltration of interstitium by lymphocytes that may beindistinguishable from lymphoma. ·Giant-cell interstitial pneumonia consisting of a mononuclear cell infiltrate in the interstitium associated with large numbers ofmultinucleated giant cells.
·       CXR typically shows bilateral basal reticulonodular shadows which advance upwards as the disease progresses. In advancedcases there is marked destruction of the parenchyma causing 'honeycombing' (due to groups of closely set ring shadows), andnodular shadows are not conspicuous. The mediastinum may appear broad as a result of a decrease in lung volume.·       Blood gases: arterial desaturation worsens while upright and improves on recum-bency. There is arterial hypoxaemia and hypocapnia.·       Pulmonary function tests: in the early stages lung volumes may be normal, but there is arterial desaturation following exercise.Typically there is a restrictive defect with reduction of both the gas transfer factor and gas transfer coefficient.·       High ESR; raised immunoglobulins; raised antinuclear factor; rheumatoid factoris positive.·       Bronchial lavage: a large number of lymphocytes indicates a good response to steroids and a good prognosis. A large numberof neutrophils and eosinophils indi-cates a poor prognosis (5-year survival rate of 60% for steroid responders versus 25% fornon-responders). The patients are more likely to respond to cyclophos-phamide if the number of neutrophils is increased (AmRev Respir Dis 1987; 135: 26).·       Lung biopsy: in early stages there is mononuclear cell infiltration in the alveolar walls, progressing to interstitial fibrosis - knownas usual interstitial pneumonitis (UIP); in later stages fibrotic contraction of the lung, honeycombing, bronchial dilatation andcysts are seen. DIP - alveolar macrophages with little mononuclear infiltration or fibrosis - has a better prognosis than UIP as itresponds to steroids.·       MRI is useful in determining disease activity without ionizing radiation but it isan expensive method. · High-resolution CT (HRCT) is useful to assess the pattern and extent of disease. Patients with a predominantly ground-glassappearance are treated whereas those with a predominantly reticular appearance undergo technetium diethylenetriaminepenta-acetate scanning (DPTA) to assess the probability of deterioration. HRCT may avoid the need for biopsy, especially ifthere is predominantly reticular shadowing. It acts as a guide for ideal biopsy site.·       Technetium-99m diethylenetriamine penta-acetate (DPTA) scanning in non-smokers is of value in identifying which patients aremore likely to deteriorate. Therapy can be postponed when there is slow clearance, whereas those with fast clearance shouldreceive treatment (Eur Respir J 1993; 6: 797-802).
Short duration of disease, young age of patient at onset, female, predominantly ground-glass shadowing on CXR and presence oflittle fibrosis on lung biopsies are good prognostic factors.
·       All patients should receive a course of steroids (unless there are contraindi-cations): prednisolone 40 mg per day for 6 weeks.Monitor symptoms, CXR, lung function tests. If response is good, continue; if no response then taper over 1 week.·       Steroid non-responders may benefit from a course of cyclophosphamide. Occasionally, patients who are unresponsive toprednisolone and cyclo-phosphamide will respond to prednisolone and azathioprine.·       Identify the underlying cause and manage accordingly.
The 5-year overall survival rate is 50%, 65% in steroid responders and 25% in steroid non-responders.
· Respiratory failure or cor pulmonale precipitated by chest infection.* Ten-fold increase in bronchogenic carcinoma compared with normal controls.
Single-lung transplantation is now an established and effective form of treatment for certain individuals. Current survival rate at 1year is approximately 60% (N Engl J Med 1986; 314:1140-45).
The Hamman-Rich syndrome is a rapidly progressive and fatal variant of interstitial lung disease described by Hamman andRich (Bull Johns Hopkins Hosps 1944; 74: 177).
·       Transbronchial: sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, berylliosis, lymphangitis carcinomatosa, extrinsic allergic alveolitis.·       Open lung biopsy: fibrosing alveolitis, rheumatological disease, pulmonary vasculitis, lymphangioleiomyomatosis, Langerhanscell histiocytosis.L.V. Hamman (1877-1946), physician, and A.R. Rich (1893-1968), pathologist, worked at the Johns Hopkins Hospitals, Baltimore (Hamman L, Rich AR 1944 Acute diffuseinterstitial fibrosis of the lungs. Bull Johns Hopkins Hosps 1944; 74' 177).Dame Margaret Turner-Warwick, contemporary chest physician, was the first woman President of the Royal College of the Physicians of London; her chief interest isfibrotic lung disease.
*      Tuberculosis.·       Ankylosing spondylitis.·       Radiation-induced fibrosis.
MRI is better for upper lobe lesions than CT of the chest.
MRI of the thorax is less useful than CT scanning because of poorer imaging of the pulmonary parenchyma and inferior spatial resolution. However, MRI can provide images in multiple planes (e.g. sagittal, coronal as well as transverse) which CT can not. MRI is excellent for evaluating processes near the lung apex, spine and thoraco-abdominal junction.
Air in the pleural cavity.
·       CXR, both inspiratory and expiratory phases. In critically ill patients pneumo-thorax is suspected when (a) the costophrenicangle extends more inferiorly than usual due to air- the 'deep sulcus sign' (Radiology 1980; 136: 25-7), (b) liver appears moreradiolucent due to air in the CP angle, or on the left side, when the air will outline the medial aspect of the hemidiaphragmunder the heart.·       Blood gases if the patient is breathless: hypoxaemia depending on the shunting,whereas hypercapnia does not develop.
British Thoracic Society grading:·       Small: where there is a small rim of air around the lung.·       Moderate: when the lung is collapsed towards the heart border.·       Complete: airless lung, separate from the diaphragm (aspiration is necessary).·       Tension: any pneumothorax with cardiorespiratory distress (rare and requires immediatedrainage).
·       Small pneumothoraces (less than 20% in size) spontaneously resolve withinweeks.·       Larger ones (irrespective of size) with normal lungs are managed by simple aspir-ation rather than an intercostal tube as theinitial drainage procedure. Aspiration is less painful than intercostal drainage, leads to a shorter admission and reduces theneed for pleurectomy with no increase in recurrence rate at 1 year.·       When there is rapid re-expansion following simple aspiration, an intercostal tube with underwater seal drainage is used. Thetube should be left in for at least 24 hours. When the lung re-expands, clamp the tube for 24 hours. If repeat radio-graphyshows that the lung remains expanded, the tube can be removed. If not, suction should be applied to the tube. If it fails toresolve within I week, surgical pleurodesis should be considered. Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery with several chest portsallows clear visualization of the pleural cavity for resection of bullae and pleurodesis.
· Spontaneous (usually in thin males).· Trauma.· Bronchial asthma.· COAD - emphysematous bulla (JAMA 1975; 234: 389-93).· Carcinoma of the lung.· Cystic fibrosis.· TB (the original descriptions of pneumothorax were commonly associated withTB, JAMA 1931; 96: 653-7).·       Mechanical ventilation.·       Marfan's syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.·       Catamenial pneumothorax, i.e. pneumothorax that occurs in association with menstruation.
By injecting talc into the pleural cavity via the intercostal tube.
In patients with underlying cystic fibrosis. These patients may require lung trans-plantation in the future and pleurodesis may makethis procedure technically not feasible.
Tension pneumothorax should be suspected in the presence of any of the following:·       Severe progressive dyspnoea.·       Severe tachycardia.·       Hypotension.·       Marked mediastinal shift.
It should be considered if one of the following is present:·       A third episode of spontaneous pneumothorax.·       Any occurrence of bilateral pneumothorax.·       Failure of the lung to expand after tube thoracostomy for the first episode.O.K. Williamson (1866-1941), an English physician, described the Williamson sign, i.e. blood pressure in the leg is lower than that inthe upper limb on the affected side in pneumothorax.The use of simple aspiration to manage pneumothorax was first reported by O.G. Raja in 1981 when he was a medical registrar (BrJDis Chest 1981; 75: 207-8).
Old tuberculosis requires no antituberculosis treatment. However, the patient may require symptomatic treatment for wheeze andshortness of breath.
· Asian and Irish immigrants.· The elderly.· Immunocompromised individuals, particularly AIDS patients.· Alcoholics.* Occupations at risk: doctors, nurses, chest physiotherapists.
Yes. Segregation in a single room for 2 weeks is recommended for patients with smear-positive tuberculosis. Barrier nursing,however, is unnecessary. Adults with smear-negative or non-pulmonary disease may be in a general ward. A child with TB shouldbe segregated until the source case is identified as this person may be visiting the child.
Contacts are investigated by inquiry into bacille Calmette-Gudrin (BCG) vac-cination site, Heaf testing and CXR examination.
BCG vaccination is offered to previously unvaccinated, persistently Heat' test-negative or grade 1 contacts aged under 35 years unless there is a special occu-pational, travel or ethnic risk. Patients with known or suspected HIV infection should not be offered the vaccination.
· Chemoprophylaxis may be given to those with strongly positive Heat' test reactions but no clinical or radiological evidence of TB (Thorax 1994; 49:1193-200). · Chemoprophylaxis should be given to children under 5 years who are close contacts of a smear-positive adult irrespective of their tuberculin test result. groups. 
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
A mixture of obstructive apnoea and sleep-induced hypoventilation. The blood gas picture is hypoxia and carbon dioxide retention.
It is caused by the apposition of the tongue and the palate on the posterior pharyngeal wall.
· Weight reduction.· Avoidance of smoking and alcohol.· Progesterone (enhances respiratory drive).·       Continuous nasal positive airway pressure delivered by a nasal mask (lancet 1999; 353: 2100-5).·       Home oxygen.·       Surgery: tracheostomy, uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, linguoplasty, mandibular advancement, plastic remodelling of the uvula(laser-assisted or radiofrequency ablation).·       Drugs: serotonin receptor blockade, acetazolamide, methylxanthines, weight loss medications.Mr. Pickwick is a character in the novel Pickwick Papers, written by Charles Dickens; the term was applied by Sir William Osier.
These include:·       Bronchogenic carcinoma.·       Mucus plugs (asthma, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis; BMJ1982; 285: 552).·       Extrinsic compression from hilar adenopathy (e.g. primary TB).·       Tuberculosis (Brock's syndrome).·       Other intrabronchial tumours including bronchial adenoma.
The loss of definition of the right heart border reflects collapse (or consolidation) affecting the right middle lc}he
It is collapse due to compression of the right middle lobe bronchus by an enlarged lymph node.
WHO grading of goitre (Lancet 2000; 355: 06-10):Grade 0: No palpable or visible goitre.Grade 1: Palpable goitre (larger than terminal phalanges of examiner's thumbs).lA Goitre detectable only on pt lpation.lB Goitre palpable and visible with neck extended.Grade 2: Goitre visible with neck in normal position.Grade 3: Large goitre visible from a distance.
The thyroid bruit is almost pathognomonic of Graves' disease and occursonlyrarely in patients with colloid goitres or other thyroid disorders.In 1915, Kendall isolated a crystalline product named thyroxine (Kendall EC 1915The isolation in crystalline form of the compound containing iodine which occurs inthe thyroid. JAMA 64: 2042).In 1927, Harrington and Barger synthesized thy-oxine (Harrington CR, Barger G 1927Chemistry of thyroxine. Biochem J 21: 169).In 1952, Gross and Pitt-Rivers identified tri-iodothyronine (Gross J, Pitt-Rivers R 1952The identification of 3,5,3' L-triiodothyronine ir human plasma. Lancet i: 439).In 1946, H.S. Pemberton described the sign of tile 'submerged' goitre (Pemberton HS1946 Sign of submerged goitre. Lancet251: 50!1).
Serum thyroxine (T4), serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels and thyroidautoantibodies.
·    Primary: Graves' disease, toxic nodule, multinodular goitre, Hashimoto'sthyroiditis, iodine-induced, excess thyroid hormone replacement, postpartumthyroiditis.·    Secondary: pituitary or excess TSH hypersecretion, hydatidiform mole, strumaovarii, factitious.
Hyperthyroidism with goitre, eye changes and pretibial myxoedema - they runindependent courses.
Radioactive iodine uptake increases in Graves' disease.
Serum TSH measurement is the single most reliable test to diagnose all commonforms of hyperthyroidism, particularly in an outpatient setting (Arch Intern Meal2000; 160: 1573-5). Typically, serum concentrations are less than 0.1 mIU/l inGraves' disease, toxic adenoma, nodular goitre, subacute and lymphocytic (silent,postpartum) thyroiditis, iodine-induced hyperthyroidism and exogenous thyroidhormone excess. To diagnose hyperthyroidism accurately, TSH assay sensitivity,the lowest reliably measured TSH concentration, must be 0.02 mlU/l or less. Someless sensitive TSH assays cannot reliably distinguish hyperthyroidism fromeuthyroidism. Free T4 and T3 concentrations should be measured when lesssensitive TSH assays are utilized. In rare types of TSH-mediated hyperthyroidism(pituitary adenomas and selective pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone) serumTSH alone will not suffice and again free T4 and T3 concentrations should be measured.
· Mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism. · Recovery from overt hyperthyroidism. · Non-thyroidal illness (which can cause a low serum free 3?4). · Pregnancy during the first trimester. · Medications such as dopamine and glucocorticoids.
· Thyroiditis. · Malignancy of thyroid. · Struma ovarii.
· Carbimazole. · Methimazole. · Propylthiouracil.
· Occasionally complicated by troublesome hypersensitivity reaction and very rarely by life-threatening agranulocytosis and hepatitis.
Both radioactive iodine therapy and surgical thyroidectomy are extremely effective and usually result in permanent cure. Patients will require lifelong thyroxine replacement. Thyroid surgery is expensive, inconvenient and occasionally com-plicated by injury to surrounding structures in the neck in less skilled hands, and by the risks of anaesthesia. In Graves' disease the indications for surgery include: a large goitre, the patient's preference, drug non-compliance and disease relapse when radioiodine is not available. Radioactive iodine, although safe, may not be acceptable to patients who are sensitive to the calamities of Chernobyl and Hiroshima
· Breastfeeding and pregnancy. · Situations in which it is clear that the safety of other persons cannot be 911ar~nteecl · Patients who are incontinent who are unwilling to have a urinary catheter. · Allergy to iodine 
Hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease with moderate goitre (40-50 g), with no significant eye signs and first presentation. Toxic multinodular goitre in older persons complicated by heart failure or atrial fibrillation. Toxic adenoma, usually with mild hyperthyroidism. Ophthalmopathy with thyroid dysfunction with stable eye disease. Ablation therapy in those with severe manifestations such as heart failure, atrial fibrillation or psychosis.
Depending on the dose, they should avoid journeys on public transport, stay off work, avoid places of entertainment or close contact with other people for up to 12 days and avoid non-essential close personal contact with children and preg-nant women for up to 27 days. Patients should be warned that in the first fortnight after administration of therapy they may experience palpitations or other exacerbations of symptoms, par-ticularly when not euthyroid before treatment. The importance of regular follow-up should be emphasized, as should the need to report the recurrence of thyrotoxic symptoms or the development of hypothyroidism. Patients should be informed that atrial fibrillation often reverts to normal rhythm and that digitalis may then be discontinued. Patients should be reminded to avoid pregnancy for 4 months after radioiodine therapy.
There is little evidence to suggest an increased frequency of thyroid cancer in patients with Graves' disease.
Yes, chronic thyrotoxicosis is associated with osteoporosis.
Hypokalaemic periodic paralysis, which occurs particularly in Asian men. These attacks may last for 7-72 hours.
It may cause transient hypothyroidism (Wolff-Chaikoff effect) or hyperthyroidism
The prevalence is 0.2% in the adult population; the prevalence of mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism, where serum TSH is less than 0.1 mlU/1 and free T4 and T3 are normal, is 0.1-6% of the adult population.
Amiodarone, which contains 37% iodine, can induce hyperthyroidism; this disorder is more common in iodine-deficient areas (Ann Intern Med 1984; 101: 28-34) and in patients with nodular goitres and thyroid autoantibodies. There are two mechanisms by which amiodarone may cause hyperthyroidism: thyroid destruction due to an iodine-associated increase in circulating interleukin-6 (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1994; 78: 423-7) or an increase in thyroid hormone synthesis. Amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism sometimes responds to thionamide antithyroid drugs but may also be very resistant to treatment. A combination of potassium perchlorate and carbimazole should be tried; steroids may he etlectlve, particularly if interleukin-6
Werner's mnemonic, NO SPECS (J C/in Endocrinol Metab 1977; 44: 2034):No signs or symptoms.Only signs of upper lid retraction and stare, with or without lid lag and exophthalmos.Soft tissue involvement.Proptosis.Extraocular muscle involvement.Corneal involvement.Sight loss due to optic nerve involvement.
·    History and clinical examination for signs of thyrotoxicosis and thyroidenlarge-ment and bruit.·    Serum T4, triiodothyronine (T3), TSH.·    Thyroid antibodies.
· Sympathetic overstimulation, causing overaction of Mtiller's muscle.·    Myopathy of the inferior rectus causing overaction of superior rectus and levatormuscles.·    Restrictive myopathy of the levator muscle.
The patient will be clinically and biochemically euthyroid but will have mani-festationsof Graves' ophthalmopathy. A thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) stimulationtest will show a flat response curve.
· Ophthalmological referral.· Ultrasonography of the orbit.· CT scan of the orbit.
It is assessed using a Hertel's exophthalmometer. The upper limit of normal is subjectto ethnic variation: usually, more than 20 mm is considered as proptosis.
The single most important aspect is a close liaison between the physician and theophthalmologist.Severe Graves' disease and visual loss should be treated immediately with highdoses of corticosteroids, orbital irradiation and plasma exchange as an adjunctand, if there is no improvement within 72-96 hours, orbital nerve decompression bysurgical removal of the floor and medial wall of the orbit is necessary.Moderate ophthalmopathy improves substantially in 2-3 years in most patients. In theinterim the patient is treated symptomatically:·    Pain and grittiness is treated with methylcellulose eye drops by day and alubricating eye ointment at night.·    Exposure keratitis may be relieved by lateral tarsorrhaphy, surgery of the lowereyelid.·    Diplopia may be relieved by prisms or surgery of the extraocular muscles.·    Static or worsening ophthalmopathy is an indication for steroids, orbitaldecom-pression or orbital irradiation.·    Patients should be advised to stop smoking.Mild ophthalmopathy should be rectified by cosmetic eyelid surgery. It is important toremember that patients can be distressed by their appearance. During the earlyacute phase patients will have considerable symptomatic relief from the followingmeasures:·    Elevating the head at night.·    Diuretics to reduce oedema.·    Tinted glasses for protection from the sun, wind and foreign bodies.
·    Firstly, since radioiodine treatment carries a substantial risk of exacerbatingpre-existing thyroid eye disease, it should be avoided as far as possible in patientswith active or severe ophthalmopathy, in whom medical therapy with a thionamidedrug such as carbimazole is preferable. Radioiodine may be used in patients withmild eye disease but adjuvant oral corticosteriods should be prescribed (N Engl JMed 1998; 338: 73-8).·    Secondly, patients without clinical evidence of thyroid disease have a small risk ofdeveloping ophthalmopathy and a very low risk of developing severe eye disease.It is prudent to warn all patients of this complication, but the risks do not justifydenying most patients the benefits of definitive treatment with radioiodine whenindicated. In addition, the risks do not justify the routine use of corti-costeroids inpatients without ophthalmopathy (BMJ 1999; 319: 68-9).·    Thirdly, smoking, a raised serum triiodothyronine concentration, and uncorrectedhypothyroidism are also factors which can exacerbate thyroid eye disease.There-fore, to reduce the risk of thyroid eye disease, patients should beencouraged to stop smoking, be rendered euthyroid with a thionamide beforeradioiodine, and be monitored closely to detect and treat early hypothyroidism orpersistent hyperthyroidism.
These include:·     Infrequent blinking - Stellwag's sign.·    Tremor of closed eyelids - Rosenbach's sign.·    Difficulty in everting upper eyelid - Gifford's sign.·    Absence of wrinkling of forehead on sudden upward gaze - Joffroy's sign.·    Impaired convergence of the eyes - M6bius' sign.·    Weakness of at least one of the extraocular muscles - Ballet's sign.·    Paralysis of extraocular muscles - Jendrassik's sign.·    Poor fixation on lateral gaze - Suker's sign.·    Dilatation of pupil with weak adrenaline solution - Loewi's sign.·    Jerky pupillary contraction to consensual light - Cowen's sign.·    Increased pigmentation of the margins of eyelids - Jellinek's sign.·    Upper lid resistance on downward traction - Grove's sign.·    Abnormal fullness of the eyelid - Enroth's sign.·    Unequal pupillary dilatation - Knie's sign.·    When the eyeball is turned downwards, there is arrest of the descent of the lid,spasm and continued descent - Boston's sign.·    When the clinician places his or her hand on a level with the patient's eyes andthen lifts it higher, the patient's upper lids spring up more quickly than the eyeball -Kocher's sign.J. Dalrymple (1804-1852), an English ophthalmologist.Exophthalmos associated with goitre and non-organic heart disease was firstdescribed by English physician Caleb Hillard Parry (1775-1822) in a paperpublished posthumously in 1825. He graduated in medicine from Edinburgh andpractised in Bath. He described hyperthyroidism before Graves' disease.In 1977, Solomon et al presented the evidence that three independent autoimmunediseases tended to occur concomitantly in the same euthyroid Graves'ophthalmopathy: idiopathic hyperthyroidism, Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves'ophthalmopathy.Anthony Tort, an endocrinologist at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, is past President ofthe Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
Get the patient to kneel on a chair with his hands holding the back of the chair andthen elicit the jerks on either side.
· Idiopathic (majority).· Hashimoto's thyroiditis.· Graves' disease.·    Iodine deficiency (simple goitre).·    Puberty, pregnancy, subacute thyroiditis, goitrogens (lithium, phenylbutazone).
Hypothyroidism (usually).
Delayed ankle jerks.
Elevated serum TSH levels. When there is a suspicion of pituitary or hypothalamicdisease, the serum free T4 concentration should be measured in addition to serumTSH levels. Serum triiodothyronine concentrations are a poor indicator ofhypo-thyroid state and should not be used.
· Hypercholesterolaemia.· Hyponatraemia.· Anaemia.· Elevations of creatinine phosphokinase and lactate dehydrogenase.· Hyperprolactinaemia.
· Mild (subclinical) hypothyroidism. · Recovery from hypothyroxinaemia of non-thyroidal illnesses. · Medications such as amiodarone or lithium
· Mild (subclinical) hyperthyroidism. · Recovery from overt hyperthyroidism. · Non-thyroidal illness which cause low serum free thyroxine concentration. · Pregnancy during first trimester. · Medications such as dopamine and glucocorticoids. 
Estimation of serum T3, T4, TSH and thyroid antibodies.
The exact cause is not known. It is probably due to decreased muscle metabolism.
Oral thyroxine replacement therapy for life. The therapeutic dose varies between 100 and 200 gg per day taken as a single dose. Dose adjustments are made once in 3 weeks. The dose is adjusted depending on the clinical response and suppression of raised serum TSH levels. Lack of response to thyroxine suggests: · Non-thyroid related disease. · Poor compliance. · Underlying psychiatric abnormalities. · Presence of pernicious anaemia. · Associated autoimmune disease such as Addison's disease. 
Rapid T4 replacement may precipitate angina and myocardial infarction. The starting dose in the elderly is 50/ag per day.
· Bradycardia. · Mild hypertension. · Pericarditis and pericardial effusion. · High low-density lipoprotein, low high-density lipoprotein levels, hypercholesterolaemia. · ECG changes: low-voltage T and P waves, prolongation of QT interval. · Diminished cardiac output and cardiac failure. · Coronary artery disease. 
· Delayed deep tendon reflexes (Woltman's sign). · Carpal tunnel syndrome, peripheral neuropathy. · Myxoedema madness. · Myxoedema coma. · Pseudodementia. Deafness to high tones (Trotter's syndrome) (Trotter WR 1960 The association of deafness with thyroid dysfunction. Br Med Bull 16: 92). In Pendred's syndrome, babies are born with a goitre, deafness and mental retardation. Cerebellar syndrome (Lancet 1960; ii: 225). Hoffmann's syndrome, i.e. muscle aches with myotonia in myxoedema. In infants, muscle involvement may result in Kocher-Debr6-S6mdlaigne syndrome or 'infant Hercules'. 
This is a condition in which serum thyroxine levels are low normal, and serum TSH is moderately raised (grade 1: 5-10, grade 2: 10.1-20, grade 3: >20). All these patients should be treated.
· Addison's disease. · Diabetes mellitus. · Graves' disease. · Hypoparathyroidism. · Premature ovarian failure. · Pernicious anaemia. · Rheumatoid arthritis. · Sj6gren's syndrome. · Ulcerative colitis. · SLE. · Haemolytic anaemia. 
In severe acute non-thyroidal illness or following surgery, changes in l~ituitary-thyroid function result in altered thyroid indices but, despite this, patients remain euthyroid. On recovery from the illness, the indices of thyroid function return to normal (N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 1562-3). The changes in thyroidal indices include: · Decrease in extrathyroidal conversion of thyroxine T4 to triiodothyronine (T3), the active form of the thyroid hormone. A decrease in thyrotrophin secretion, which causes decreased thyroidal secretion and, in time, decreases in serum T4 concentrations and further decreases in serum T3 concentrations - the latter due to both decreased secretion of T3 by the thyroid and diminished availability of T4 for peripheral conversion to T3. Decreased production or diminished affinity for thyroidal hormones of one or more major serum thyroid hormone-binding proteins - thyroxine-binding globulin, transthyretin and albumin. These decreases can result in decreased serum total thyroxine levels but not in free T4 or T3. Serum concentrations of reverse T3 (which is inactive) are increased because its deiodination is impaired. 
The prevalence is 2% of the adult population, whereas that of mild (subclinical) hypothyroidism is 5-17% (subclinical hypothyroidism is when serum TSH is elevated with a normal free T4 concentration).
It is permanent and there are no spontaneous remissions; therefore, antithyroid drugsto decrease thyroid hormone secretion are not an appropriate long-term therapy.
·    Serum thyrotrophin and tree thyroxine should be measured to identify those withsubclinical or overt hyperthyroidism.·    Uhrasonography of the thyroid gland indicates whether the goitre is cystic or solid.·    If nodule is solid, perform a radioisotope scan to indicate whether it is hot or cold.·    If cold nodule, fine-needle aspiration.·    Patients with features of tracheal compression (inspiratory stridor and dyspnoea)should undergo CT or MRI of the neck and upper thorax, and pulmonary functiontests, especially flow-volume loop studies. When CT is used, iodinated contrastagents should not be given because of the risk of inducing hyperthyroidism.
· Beta-blockers to control thyrotoxicosis.· Warfarin in atrial fibrillation to prevent embolic complications.· Radioiodine for hyperthyroidism.·    Surgery if the patient refuses radioiodine, for large multinodular goitres ormalignancy.
· Compression of the trachea or oesophagus and venous outflow obstruction.· Growth of the goitre, especially where there is intrathoracic extension.· Neck discomfort or cosmetic issues.
SurgeryStandard therapy, especially when rapid decompression of vital structures isrequired. It allows pathological examination of the thyroid. Disadvantages includepostoperative tracheal obstruction, recurrent laryngeal nerve injury,hypo-parathyroidism, hypothyroidism and goitre recurrence.ThyroxineAlternative to surgery in young patients with small goitres. Its disadvantage is that itcauses only a small decrease in thyroid volume; long-term efficacy is not known;decrease in bone mineral density in postmenopausal women; possible cardiac sideeffects.RadioiodineAn alternative to surgery in elderly patients and in those with cardiopulmonarydisease. It results in a substantial decrease in thyroid volume and improvement ofcompressive symptoms in most patients. Disadvantages include: it only causes agradual decrease in thyroid volume; radiation thyroiditis (usually mild);radiation-induced thyroid dysfunction (hyperthyroidism in 5%, hypothyroidism in20-30%); possible risk of radiation-induced cancer (N Engl J Med 1998; 338:143847).
Treatment is always indicated when overt hyperthyroidism is present. In cases ofsubclinical hyperthyroidism, treatment is advisable in elderly patients and inyounger ones who are at risk for cardiac disease or osteoporosis. The treatmentoptions available are:Antithyroid drugsValuable as pretreatment for surgery; valuable before and after radioiodine treat-mentin elderly patients and those with concurrent health problems; long-term treatmentis 'recommended only when other therapies cannot be used. The dis-advantagc~ale that the treatment is lifelong and there are adverse effects such asagranulocytosis.SurgeryShould be considered for large goitres when rapid relief is needed. The otheradvantage is that it provides tissue for a pathological diagnosis. Disadvantagesinclude surgical mortality and morbidity; hypothyroidism, persistence or recurrenceof hyperthyroidism.RadioiodineAn appealing option in the majority of the patients because it is highly effective forreversal of hyperthyroidism. The disadvantages include a gradual diminution of thehyperthyroid state, more than one dose may be necessary, hypothyroidism(<20%); theoretical risk of radiation-induced cancer (N Engl J Med 1998;338:1438-47).
Graves' disease                  Toxic nodular goitreYounger age groupDiffuse goitreEye signs commonAtrial fibrillation uncommonOther autoimmune diseases commonOlder individualsNodular enlargement of the glandEye signs rareAtrial fibrillation common(about 40% of the patients)Other autoimmune diseases uncommon
Patient's age, sex, diagnosis, severity of hyperthyroidism, presence of other medicalconditions, access to radioiodine (I-131), and patient and doctor preference.
The heart is small.
· Suntan.· Race.· Uraemia.· Haemochromatosis.· Primary biliary cirrhosis.· Ectopic ACTH.· Porphyria cutanea tarda.· Nelson's syndrome.· Malabsorption syndromes.
· Idiopathic (80%).· Tuberculosis.· Metastasis.· HIV infection.
Graves' disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary ovarian failure, pernicious anaemia,polyglandular syndromes.
Addison's disease and hypoparathyroidism.
They are autoimmune in nature and are of two types:·    Type I: chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism and Addison'sdisease.·    Type II: Addison's disease, insulin-dependent diabetes and thyroid disease(hyper-thyroidism or hypothyroidism). This syndrome is also known asautoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dysplasia.
Adrenal insensitivity to ACTH (resulting in cortisol deficiency), achalasia, alacrima and neurological disease.
FBC (for lymphocytosis, eosinophilia). Electrolytes (for hyponatraemia, hyperkalaemia, hyperchloraemic acidosis, hypercalcaemia). Blood glucose, looking for hypoglycaemia. Short ACTH (1-24) (Synacthen) test; if positive, follow up with a prolonged ACTH stimulation test. ACTH and cortisol levels. Adrenal autoantibodies. CXR for tuberculosis. Plain radiograph of the abdomen for adrenal calcification. CT scan of the adrenals.
Replacement steroids: prednisolone 5 mg maneand 2.5 mg nocte; adjust dose depending on serum levels and clinical well-being. Fludrocortisone 0.025-0.15 mg daily; adjust dose depending on postural hypotension. Give steroid card and Medic Alert bracelet. Stress the importance of regular therapy, and increase the dose in the event of stress such as dental extraction or urinary tract infection. It is also important to tell the patient that this therapy is lifelong and that an ampoule of hydrocortisone should be kept at home. Follow up every 6 months.
Ask about any increase in size of shoes, gloves and hat, and whether the weddingring is tight to wear.
· Acromegaly.· Amyloidosis.· Hypothyroidism.· Down's syndrome.
One third of patients notice a change in their features, one third are noticed tohave a change in their features by their GP, and the remaining third havesymptoms such as excessive sweating and visual difficulties.
· Cardiomegaly and heart failure.· Hypertension.· Impaired glucose tolerance.·    Hypopituitarism.·    Carpal tunnel syndrome.·    Arthritis of the hip, knee and spine.·    Spinal stenosis resulting in cord compression.·    Visual field defects.
· Symptoms such as headache, increase in size of ring, shoe or dentures.· Excessive sweating.· Skin tags.· Glycosuria.· Hypertension.· Increased loss of visual fields.
Biochemical tests ·    Non-suppressibility of growth hormone levels to less than 2 ng/ml after oraladministration of 100 g glucose.·    Plasma insulin-like growth factor levels (allow assessment of the efficacy of initialtherapy and in the post-therapeutic period).·    Also serum T4, prolactin, testosterone; evaluate pituitary function - static anddynamic tests.·    Calcium levels (to exclude multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1 syndrome). Radiography · Pituitary fossa (enlarged sella).· Sinuses.· Chest (cardiomegaly).· Hand (terminal phalangeal 'tufting').·    Foot (terminal phalangeal 'tufting', lateral view shows increased thickness of theheel pad).·    CT scan (MRI scan is more reliable). Remember that, unlike in Cushing's disease and prolactinomas, the majority of thepatients with acromegaly have macroadenomas.Other investigations· Formal perimetry.· Obtain old photos.· New photos of face, torso, hands on the chest.· ECG.· Triple stimulation test if hypopituitarism is suspected.
·    Neurosurgical intervention - typically trans-sphenoidal - is the primary thera-peuticchoice for almost all patients. Diaphoresis and carpal tunnel syndrome oftenimprove within 1 day of surgery. Although growth hormone levels fall immediately,insulin-like growth factor levels fall gradually.·    Radiation therapy is a primary treatment option for a few patients who haveacromegaly but are not surgical candidates.·    Octreotide and bromocriptine are valuable as adjunctive therapy.Remember. The aim of treatment should be symptomatic control and a growthhormone concentration of less than 5 mU/1.
· Cardiac failure.· Tumour expansion (mass effect and haemorrhages).· Effects of hypertension.· Degenerative vascular disease.
·    Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (parathyroid hyperplasia, pituitary tumoursand gut tumours).·    McCune-Albright syndrome (polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, sexual precocity andcaf6-au-lait spots).·    Carney complex, of autosomal dominant aetiology, which consists of multi-centrictumours in many organs (including cardiac myxomas, myxomas in breast, testes,pigmented skin lesions and pigmented nodular hyperplasia).In 1886, Pierre Marie (1853-1940) used the term 'acromegaly' in describing twopatients and reviewed eight previously published papers describing patients withpresumed acromegaly (Marie P 1886 Sur deux cas d'acromegalie. Hypertrophiesinguliere non-cong~nitale des extremites sup~rieures, inferieures et c~phaliques.Rev Med 6: 297-333). He also described Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. In 1887,Minkowski deduced that acromegaly is related to pituitary tumour (Minkowski O1887 Uber einen Fall von Akromegalie. Berl Kiln Wochenschr 24: 371-4).In 1891, the New Syndenham Society published a translation of Marie's originalpaper and a review by Souza-Leite of 48 patients (Marie P, Souza-Leite JD 1891Essays on Acromegaly. London: New Sydenham Society).Fuller Albright, Professor of Endocrinology at Massachussetts General Hospital andHarvard Medical School, whose chief interest was calcium metabolism.
· Iatrogenic - from surgical removal of the pituitary or irradiation.· Chromophobe adenoma (particularly in males).· Postpartum pituitary necrosis in females - known as Sheehan's syndrome.Rare causes· Craniopharyngioma.·    Metastatic tumours, granulomas (TB, sarcoid, haemochromatosis, histiocytosis X).
· FBC for normochromic normocytic anaemia.·    Urea and electrolytes for hyponatraemia due to dilution. Hyperkalaemia does notusually occur because aldosterone production is not affected.·    Measurement of pituitary hormone levels (ACTH, TSH, luteinizing hormone (LH),growth hormone, prolactin).·    Measurement of target organ secretion (T4, T3, serum cortisol, testosterone,oestrogen and progesterone levels).·    Pituitary stimulation tests:-Thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) stimulation tests. -Tetracosactide(Synacthen) tests. -Insulin hypoglycaemia test.-Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) tests.·    Skull radiography.·    MRI provides the best image of parasellar lesions. The posterior pituitary usuallyhas a high-intensity signal on sagittal MRI that is absent in central diabetesinsipidus.·    Assessment of visual fields (formal perimetry).
In general, growth hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and LH secretionsbecome deficient early, followed by TSH and ACTH. Last of all, antidiuretichormone (ADH) secretions diminish and fail.
The mainstay of therapy is lifetime replacement of end-organ hormone deficiencies(thyroid, adrenal and gonads).
Even when hormonal replacement therapy (adrenal, gonadal and thyroid) is carriedout in an adequate manner, there is a two-fold risk of death in patients withhypo-pituitarism (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1996; 81:1169-72). It has beensuggested that this is due to untreated growth hormone deficiency.
Houssay showed that diabetes of pancreatectomized dogs improved afterhypophysectomy. A diminishing requirement of insulin by diabetics may be a signof hypopituitarism with diminished secretion of growth hormone and ACTH (andthus corticosteroids). Similarly, diabetes due to acromegaly may improve withpituitary surgery or octreotide therapy.Morris Simmonds of Hamburg described this condition in 1914.Bernardo Alberto Houssay (1889-1971), an Argentinian physiologist in Buenos Aires,was awarded the Nobel Prize for his discovery of the part played by the hormoneof the anterior pituitary lobe in the metabolism of sugar. The other half of the NobelPrize was awarded to Carl and Gerty Cori of St Louis, Missouri., USA, who wereawarded the prize for their discovery of the course of the catalytic conversion ofglycogen.
· Newborn.· Adolescence.· Ageing.
· Chronic liver disease. · Thyrotoxicosis.· Klinefelter's syndrome. · Viral orchitis. · Renal failure.· Neoplasms (bronchogenic carcinoma, testicular carcinoma, hepatoma).·    Bulbospinal muscular atrophy or Kennedy's syndrome (a defect in the androgenreceptor gene alters function of motor neurons; 50% of patients havegynaecomastia).·    Drugs associated with gynaecomastia include:-Antibiotics: isoniazid, ketoconazole, metronidazole, miconazole. -Cardiovasculardrugs: atenolol, captopril, digoxin, enalapril, methyldopa,nifedipine, spironolactone, verapamil. -Antiulcer drugs: cimetidine, ranitidine, omeprazole.-Psychoactive drugs: diazepam, tricyclic antidepressants.
· CXR for metastatic or bronchogenic carcinoma.·    Plasma human chorionic gonadotrophin (13-hCG) - detectable levels implicate atesticular tumour or lung or liver neoplasm.·    Plasma testosterone and luteinizing hormone in the diagnosis of hypogonadism.·    Serum oestradiol (usually normal).·    Other: serum prolactin, serum thyroxine and TSH, and chromosomal analysis forKlinefelter's syndrome.
· Absolute increase in oestrogen formation by tumours.· Increased availability of oestrogen precursors, e.g. as a result of cirrhosis.· Increased extraglandular oestrogen synthesis.·    Relative increase in ratio of oestrogen to androgen, e.g. as a result of testicularfailure.·    Drugs.Ancient Egyptian sculptures and paintings suggest that the pharaoh Tutankhamen(1357-1339 BC) had gynaecomastia.
Furosemide (frusemide), as it may enhance hypocalcaemia, and phenothiazinedrags, because they may precipitate extrapyramidal symptoms.
· Maintain airway.· Slow intravenous calcium gluconate and oral calcium.· Vitamin D preparations.· Magnesium (if associated hypomagnesaemia).What
(Arch Intern Med 1979; 139: 1166)?· Damage during thyroid or neck surgery (Lancet 1960; ii: 1432).· Idiopathic.·    Destruction of the parathyroid gland due to the following: -Radioactive iodinetherapy. -External neck irradiation.-   Haemochromatosis and Wilson's deficiency.-Metastatic disease from the breast, lung, lymphoproliferative disorder.·    Dysembryogenesis (DiGeorge syndrome).·    Polyglandular autoimmune syndrome (PGA type 1) which is also known asautoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECD) (seep. 371).
Typically, low serum calcium, high serum phosphate and normal alkalinephosphatase levels and reduced urine calcium excretion.
It is a condition characterized by end-organ resistance to parathyroid hormone. Thebiochemistry is similar to that of idiopathic hypoparathyroidism except that patientswith pseudohypoparathyroidism do not respond to injected parathyroid hormone.These patients are moon faced, short statured and mentally retarded and mayhave short fourth or fifth metacarpals. Patients without hypocalcaemia but whohave these phenotypic abnormalities are said to have'pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism'.
It results in a net increase of ionized calcium in the plasma as a result of:· Increased bone osteoclastic activity resulting in increased delivery of calcium andphosphorus to the extracellular compartment.·    Enhanced renal tubular absorption of calcium.·    Inhibits the absorption of phosphate and bicarbonate by the renal tubule.·    Stimulates the synthesis of 1,25-dihydrocholecalciferol (vitamin D) by the kidney.Franz Chvostek (1835-1884) was Professor of Medicine in Vienna, Austria. NathanWeiss (1851-1883), an Austrian physician.Armand Trousseau (1801-1867), a Parisian physician, was the first to refer to adrenalinsufficiency as Addison's disease.
*   Right-sided valvular lesions, including tricuspid stenosis or regurgitation, andpulmonary stenosis or regurgitation. (Note: bronchial carcinoids metastasize to theleft side of the heart.)·    Endocardial fibrosis.
Raised urinary levels of 5-HIAA (hydroxyindoleacetic acid).
· Emergency treatment includes prednisolone..    Severe diarrhoea: hydration, diphenoxylate with atropine, cyproheptadine ormethysergide..    Octreotide (a somatostatin analogue) is associated with a significant reduction in5-HIAA concentration.*   Surgery is useful for localized carcinoid.·    Chemotherapy in advanced disease (fluorouracil, streptozocin, dacarbazine).·    Interferon-c~ may be useful in those who do not respond to surgery and octreotidetreatment (Digestion 1994; 55 (suppl 3): 64-9).
Although many obese individuals are blamed for being obese - by their friends,physicians, family and by themselves - increasingly it has been shown that geneticinfluences have a substantial influence on body mass index. The ob gene is anadipocyte-specific gene that encodes leptin, a protein that regulates body weight.Animals with mutations in the ob gene are obese and lose weight when givenleptin (Nature 1994; 372: 425-32). In humans, serum leptin concentrationscorrelate with the percentage of body fat, suggesting that most obese people areinsensitive to endogenous leptin (leptin resistance).
It is a measure to determine the presence of excessive adipose tissue and iscal-culated by dividing the body weight in kilograms by the height in metressquared. The normal spread of the body mass index is from 20 to 25 kg/m2.
It is relative weight greater than 200% and is associated with a ten-fold increase inmortality rate.ENDOCRINOLOGY
Obese people have a greater risk for diabetes mellitus, stroke, coronary artery disease, premature mortality, thromboembolism, gallstones, reflux oesophagitis, sleep apnoea, polycythaemia, and cancer of the colon, rectum, prostate, uterus, breast and ovary. The risk of death from all causes is increased and the risk associated with a high body mass index is greater for whites than blacks (N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 1097-105). Also, higher maternal weight before pregnancy increases the risk of late fetal death although it protects against delivery of a small-for-gestational age infant
Central obesity (abdomen and flank) and when there is excessive visceral fat within the abdominal cavity rather than subcutaneous fat around the abdomen.
Multidisciplinary approach to weight loss: hypocaloric diets, exercise, social support. Drugs: orlistat (orlistat partially inhibits the absorption of dietary fat by binding to pancreatic lipase in the gastrointestinal tract). Surgery: vertical banded gastroplasty, gastric bypass operations. 
· Insensitivity to leptin, presumably in the hypothalamus. · Neuropeptide Y-induced hyperphagia. · Deficiency of production or action of anorexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptides. · Increased secretion of insulin and glucocorticoid. · Mutation in the gene for PPAR-¥ accelerates differentiation of adipocytes and may cause obesity. PPAR-¥ is peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-¥ and is a nuclear receptor through which the thiazolidinedione class of antidiabetic drugs acts.
Cushing's syndrome, Laurence-Moon-Biedl syndrome, pickwickian syndrome, Alstrom's syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome.
Fat cells release free fatty acids and tumour necrosis factor-alpha which cause insulin resistance, and leptin causes insulin sensitivity. A new protein called resistin that is secreted by fat cells causes insulin resistance. A group of antidiabetic drugs, the thiazolidinediones, reduces insulin resistance by suppressing the expression of resistin by the fat cells.
· Steroids, including adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH).· Pituitary adenoma (Cushing's disease).· Adrenal adenoma.· Adrenal carcinoma.· Ectopic ACTH (usually by small cell carcinoma of the lung).
Cushing's disease is increased production by the adrenals secondary to excesspituitary ACTH, whereas Cushing's syndrome is caused by excess steroid fromany cause.
Tests to confirm the diagnosis ·    24-hour urinary free cortisol: this is the most direct and reliable practical index ofcortisol secretion. The reason is that plasma concentrations of corticotrophins andcortisol fall and rise episodically, in normal subjects, in Cushing's syndrome and inectopic ACTH syndrome.·    Overnight dexamethasone test.·    Plasma cortisol. Tests to determine the site of hormone production·    Low- and high-dose dexamethasone test: low-dose dexamethasone fails tosuppress urinary steroid secretion in Cushing's disease whereas high-dosedexamethasone (2 mg q6h for 2 days) suppresses at least 50% of urinary steroidsecretion.·    CXR for carcinoma of the bronchus.·    Plain radiograph of the abdomen for adrenal calcification.·    Ultrasonography of the abdomen for adrenal tumours.·    If Cushing's disease is suspected:-Plasma ACTH, radiography of pituitary, MRI gadolinium enhancement, andbilateral measurement of corticotrophin in the inferior petrosal sinus.-Corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) test (helpful in distinguishingpituitary-led Cushing's disease from ectopic corticotrophin secretion).·    Inferior petrosal sinus sampling is used to distinguish primary and ectopic sourcesof ACTH when the source of the ACTH is not obvious based on clinicalcircumstances, biochemical evaluation and imaging studies.
·    Cushing's disease: trans-sphenoidal microadenomectomy, pituitary irradiation,total bilateral adrenalectomy.·    Adrenal tumour: surgical resection, mitotane therapy, resection of recurrenttumour.·    Ectopic ACTH: surgical resection of tumour.·    Taper corticosteroid therapy.
In chronic alcoholics and patients with depression there may be increased urinaryexcretion of steroids, absent diurnal variation of plasma steroids and a positiveover-night dexamethasone test. All these investigations return to normal ondiscon-tinuation of alcohol or improvement of emotional status.
It is a syndrome that occurs after bilateral adrenalectomy and is characterized by arapidly growing pituitary adenoma, very high ACTH levels and hyperpigmentation.As the incidence may be as high as 50%, patients with Cushing's disease whohave undergone adrenalectomy should be followed by regular plasma ACTH levelsand imaging for pituitary tumours.Harvey Williams Cushing (1869-1939) was Professor of Surgery at Harvard. He wasawardedthe Pulitzer Prize for his biography of Osier (Cushing H 1932 Thebasophil adenomas of the pituitary body and their clinical manifestation. Bull JohnsHopkins Hosp 1: 137).Christopher Edwards, contemporary Principal, Imperial College, London; his chiefinterest is metabolism of steroids.
