How would you investigate this patient?
What are the causes of dullness at a lung base?
How would you differentiate between the above?
How would you differentiate between an exudate and a transudate?
Mention a few causes for an exudate and a transudate.
Mention a few conditions in which the pleural fluid pH and glucose levels are Iow with a raised LDH concentration.
What is the value of measuring pleural fluid pH and glucoseconcentrations in cases of malignant effusions?
What further investigation would you perform to determine the underlying cause of the pleural effusion?
What is the role of pleural fluid cytology in the diagnosis of pleural effusion ?
What characteristics of the pleural fluid in a parapneumonic effusion indicate a need for closed-tube drainage?
What does a pleural fluid total neutral fat level greater than400 mg/dl suggest?
What is the significance of pleural fluid amylase levels?
What are the causes of an exudate with negative cytology findings and pleural fluid lymphocytosis?
In such patients, what other tests could you perform on the pleural fluid to determine the underlying cause?
In which conditions is the pleural fluid bloody?
What are the earliest radiological signs of pleural fluid?
How would you confirm your suspicions when in doubt of a small effusion ?
What are the other uses of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of pleural effusion ?
What is a pseudotumour?
What do you know about pleural disease in rheumatoid arthritis?
What are the complications of thoracocentesis?
What do you know about Meigs' syndrome?
Mention some causes of drug-induced pleural effusion.
The patient used to be a shipbuilder: what diagnosis would you consider?
What are the mechanisms for abnormal accumulation of pleural fluid?
How would you investigate this patient?
What would you expect to see in the ventilation-perfusion scan in a patient with pulmonary embolism?
How would you treat a patient with pulmonary embolism?
What are the ECG changes in pulmonary embolism?
Mention a few trigger factors known to aggravate asthma.
What do you understand by the term 'asthma'?
What do you understand by the term 'intrinsic asthma'?
What do you understand by the term 'extrinsic asthma'?
What are the indications for steroids in chronic asthma?
What is the effect of reducing or discontinuing inhaled budesonide in patients with mild asthma?
How would you manage a patient with acute asthma?
What do you know about the British Thoracic Society step care regimen for the management of chronic asthma in adults.
What are the features of acute severe asthma?
What are the life-threatening indicators in acute asthma?
What are the indicators of a very severe, life-threatening attack?
What is the value of assessing pulsus paradoxus in a patient with acute severe asthma ?
In which other conditions is wheeze a prominent sign?
What are the indications for mechanical ventilation with intermittent positive pressure ventilation ?
What do you understand by the term 'chronic bronchitis'?
What is the definition of emphysema?
What do you understand by the term 'COAD'?
What is the mechanism of airflow limitation in COAD?
What is the role of inflammatory mechanisms in COAD?
What is the role of high-resolution CT in the diagnosis of emphysema ? 
How would you differentiate emphysema from chronic bronchitis?
If the patient was between the ages of 30 and 45 years, what would you consider to be the underlying cause of the emphysema?
How would you treat an acute exacerbation?
What is the role of inhaled steroids in COPD?
What are the organisms commonly associated with exacerbations of COAD?
What clinical features would suggest that this patient is suitable for long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy?
How can the sensation of breathlessness be reduced?
How would you treat acute respiratory failure?
What do you know about non-invasive ventilation?
What do you know about the molecular genetics of COAD?
What is the role of surgery in COAD?
What are the general indications for lung transplantation?
What is the role of nutrition in COAD?
Mention some newer treatments for COAD.
What do you understand by the term 'bronchiectasis'?
Mention the causes of bronchiectasis.
What investigations would you perform in such a patient?
How can CT assess bronchiectasis?
What is the difference between standard and high-resolution CT?
What do you know about spiral CT?
What are the complications of bronchiectasis?
What are the major respiratory pathogens in bronchiectasis?
How would you treat such patients?
What abnormalities may be associated with bronchiectasis?
What is the indication for surgery in bronchiectasis?
What are the common sites for localized disease?
What do you understand by the term 'bronchiectasis sicca'?
What do you know about bronchiectasis in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis?
What do you know about Reid's classification of bronchiectasis?
What do you understand by the term 'cor pulmonale'?
Mention a few causes of cor pulmonale.
How would you manage a patient with cor pulmonale?
What is the prognosis in cor pulmonale?
What is the aetiology?
How would you investigate suspected bacterial pneumonia ?
What are the causes of a poorly resolving or recurrent pneumonia ?
What do you know about atypical pneumonias?
What do you know about mycoplasma pneumonia?
What are the extrapulmonary manifestations of mycoplasma pneumonia?
What are the complications of pneumonia?
Which antibiotics would you use in a patient with community-acquired pneumonia where the pathogen is not known?
What are the poor prognostic factors in patients with community-acquired pneumonia ?
What do you know about pulmonary eosinophilic disorders?
What do you know about broncbopulmonary sequestration?
How may patients with bronchogenic carcinoma present?
How would you investigate this patient?
What is the aim of staging?
What is the role of surgery in lung carcinoma?
Which tumours respond well to chemotherapy?
What are the drugs used in non-small cell lung cancer?
What are the indications for radiotherapy?
What are the contraindications for surgery?
Is the progression of cancer associated with genetic change?
What are the chances of this male patient having a child?
What are the clinical manifestations of this condition?
How would you treat steatorrhoea?
How would you treat chest complications?
What is the role of physiotherapy?
What is the inheritance in cystic fibrosis?
How is this condition diagnosed in infancy?
What do you know about sweat testing?
What is the basic defect in the airways of these patients?
If the patient has persistent purulent cough, which organisms are usuallyresponsible?
Which antibiotics are usually used to treat pseudomonal infections?
What is the risk of cancer in patients with cystic fibrosis?
What is the lifespan in such patients?
What is the cause of death in cystic fibrosis?
What parameters can predict death in cystic fibrosis?
How would you manage a patient who has been accepted for transplantation ?
If this patient requires lung transplantation, which type of transplantation is the treatment of choice?
What are the complications of lung transplantation?
What are the indications for combinedheart-lung transplantation?
What new methods of treatment are available?
What advice would you give a patient with cystic fibrosis who wishes to become pregnant?
What is the 'forme fruste' of cystic fibrosis?
In which other conditions is clubbing associated with crackles?
Mention possible aetiological factors.
Mention other conditions which have similar pulmonary changes.
What is the pathology in fibrosing alveolitis?
What are the types of interstitial pneumonitis?
How would you investigate this patient?
Mention prognostic factors.
How would you manage this patient?
What is the prognosis?
What are the causes of death in such patients?
What is the role for lung transplantation?
What do you know about the Hamman-Rich syndrome?
Mention indications for transbronchial and open lung biopsy.
Mention a few causes of upper lobe fibrosis.
Which is the best imaging procedure for the upper lobe lesions?
What is the role of MRI of the thorax?
What do you understand by the term 'pneumothorax'?
How would you investigate this patient?
How would you grade the degree of collapse?
How would you manage this patient?
What are the causes of pneumothorax?
How would you perform a pleurodesis?
In which patients would you avoid doing a pleurodesis?
When would you suspect a tension pneumothorax?
When should open thoracotomy be considered?
How would you manage a patient with old tuberculosis?
In which groups of people is the risk of tuberculosis high?
Would you isolate a patient with newly diagnosed, sputum-positive, pulmonary TB?
How are contacts investigated?
To whom would you offer BCG vaccination?
What are the indications for chemoprophylaxis?
Which rapid test allows early diagnosis of tuberculosis?
What is the cause of cyanosis in such a patient?
Where is the obstruction?
How would you treat such a patient?
What are the causes of lung collapse?
What are the chest radiograph findings of collapse of the right middle lobe?
What is Brock's syndrome?
How would you grade the size of the goitre?
What is the significance of the thyroid bruit?
How would you confirm the diagnosis in this patient?
What are the causes of hyperthyroidism?
What are the components of Graves' disease?
What happens to radioactive iodine uptake in Graves' disease?
Which is the best laboratory test to diagnose hyperthyroidism?
What are the causes of isolated TSH suppression?
Mention a few causes of hyperthyroidism with reduced iodine uptake.
What drugs are used in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis?
What are the disadvantages of antithyroid drugs?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of radioactive iodine, compared with partial thyroidectomy for thyrotoxicosis?
What are the contraindications to radioiodine therapy?
What are the indications for radioiodine therapy, in hyperthyroidism?
What advice would you give to patients who are administered radioiodine?
Is there an increased frequency of cancer in patients with Graves' disease ?
Does thyrotoxicosis affect the bone?
If a patient with thyrotoxicosis develops muscle weakness following oral carbohydrate or intravenous dextrose, which condition comes to mind?
What is the effect of iodine on thyroid status?
What is the prevalence of hyperthyroidism ?
What do you know about amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism?
What eye signs of thyroid disease do you know?
How would you investigate this patient?
Mention the factors implicated in the phenomenon of lid lag.
What is euthyroid Graves' disease?
What would you recommend if a patient with unilateralexophthalmos isclinically and biochemically euthyroid?
How is proptosis quantified?
How would you manage a patient with Graves' ophthalmopathy?
What is the role of radioiodine in thyroid eye disease?
Mentionthe less important eponyms related to thyroid eye disease
How is delayed relaxation best elicited in the ankle?
What are the causes of goitre?
What is the thyroid status in Hashimoto's disease?
What is the single best clinical indicatorfor hypothyroidism?
What is the best laboratory indicator for hypothyroidism?
What are the laboratory changes in hypothyroidism?
What are the causes of isolated TSH elevation?
What are the causes of isolated TSH suppression?
How would you investigate a simple goitre?
What is the cause for delayed relaxation in hypothyroidism?
How would you manage this patient with hypothyroidism?
What is the hazard in treating the elderly?
What are the cardiovascular manifestations of hypothyroidism?
What are the neurological manifestations of hypothyroidism?
What do you understand by subclinical hypothyroidism?
What other conditions are associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis?
What do you understand by the term 'sick euthyroid syndrome'?
What is the prevalence of hypothyroidism?
What is the natural history of thyrotoxicosis in nodular goitre?
How would you investigate a nodular goitre?
How would you treat such a patient?
What are the indications for treatment of patients with non-toxic multinodulargoitre?
What treatment options are available for non-toxic multinodular goitre ?
What treatment options are available for toxic multinodular goitre?
How do you differentiate between Graves' disease and toxic nodular goitre ?
What factors influence the decision to proceed to radiotherapy?
What is the size of the heart in Addison's deficiency?
Mention some causes of hyperpigmentation.
Mention some causes of Addison's disease.
Which conditions may be associated with Addison's disease?
What are the components of Schmidt's  syndrome?
What do you know about polyglandular syndromes?
What are the features of Allgrove's syndrome?
How would you investigate this patient?
How would you manage this patient if the underlying aetiology is autoimmune?
Would you like to ask the patient a few questions?
Mention some causes of macroglossia.
How can this condition present?
What are the complications of acromegaly?
What are the indicators of disease activity?
How would you investigate this patient?
What therapeutic options are available?
Mention four common causes of death in such patients.
Mention other conditions in which there is excess growth hormone secretion.
Mention a few causes of hypopituitarism.
How would you assess such a patient?
In what order do the hormone secretions generally fail?
How would you treat such patients?
Does hypopituitarism affect lifeexpectancy?
What is the Houssay phenomenon?
Mention the physiological causes of gynaecomastia.
Mention a few pathological causes.
How would you investigate such a patient?
What are the causes of a feminizing state?
Mention any drugs that you would use cautiously in hypoparathyroidism.
How would you manage an acute attack of hypoparathyroid tetany?
are the causes of hypoparathyroidism
What are the biochemical features of hypoparathyroidism?
What do you know about pseudohypoparathyroidism?
What are the main physiological effects of parathyroid hormone?
What are the cardiac lesions seen in metastatic carcinoid from the liver?
How is the diagnosis confirmed?
How are these tumours treated?
Is obesity of genetic origin?
What is the body mass index?
What is morbid obesity?
Mention some adverse health consequences of obesity.
What patterns of obesity correlate with premature coronary artery disease?
How would you manage such patients?
What are the mechanisms of obesity?
Mention some syndromes in which obesity is a prominent feature.
What is the link between obesity and diabetes?
Mention some causes of Cushing's syndrome.
What is the difference between Cushing's disease and Cushing's syndrome ?
How would you investigate such a patient?
How would you manage Cushing's syndrome?
What is pseudo-Cushing's syndrome?
What do you know about Nelson's syndrome?
