"RespiRatoRy disease 6 9 (see opposite)\u2013 Deformity (e.g. pectus excavatum) Scars Intercostal indrawing Symmetry of expansion Hyperinflation Paradoxical rib movement (low flat diaphragm) Face, mouth and eyes Pursed lips Central cyanosis Anaemia Horner\u2019s syndrome (Ch. 26) Idiopathic kyphoscoliosis Elevated Pulsatile 3 Arterial paradox From the front:   Trachea central   Cricosternal distance   Cardiac apex displaced   Expansion From behind:   Cervical lymphadenopathy   Expansion Radial pulse Rate Rhythm Resonant or dull \u2018Stony dull\u2019 (effusion) 9 Digital clubbing Tar staining Peripheral cyanosis Signs of occupation CO2 retention flap Auscultation Breath sounds: normal, bronchial, louder or softer Added sounds: wheezes, crackles, rubs Spoken voice (vocal resonance): absent (effusion), increased (consolidation) Whispered voice: whispering pectoriloquy Cor pulmonale Venous thrombosis Observation Finger clubbing \u2022 Locale     Oxygen delivery (mask, cannulae)     Nebulisers     Inhalers \u2022 Respiratory rate \u2022 Cachexia, fever, rash \u2022 Sputum (see below) \u2022 Fetor Sputum Serous/frothy/pink  Pulmonary oedema Mucopurulent  Bronchial or pneumonic  infection Purulent  Bronchial or pneumonic  infection Blood-stained  Cancer, tuberculosis,  bronchiectasis,  pulmonary embolism 644 Clinical examination of the respiratory system Pulmonary fibrosis Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Central cyanosis Tachypnoea Pursed lip breathing Central cyanosis Prolonged expiration Reduced cricosternal distance Small lungs Reduced expansion Use of accessory muscles Auscultation   Fine inspiratory   crackles at   bases Intercostal indrawing during inspiration Hyperinflated \u2018barrel\u2019 chest Auscultation   Reduced breath   sounds \u2013 wheeze See also Fig. 19.57 Cardiac apex not palpable Loss of cardiac dullness on percussion Dull percussion at bases (high diaphragm) Heart sounds loudest in epigastrium Inward movement of lower ribs on inspiration (low flat diaphragm) Also: finger clubbing common in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; raised JVP and peripheral oedema if cor pulmonale Also: raised JVP, peripheral oedema if cor pulmonale Right middle lobe pneumonia Right upper lobe collapse Inspection \u2193 Volume R upper zone Palpation   Trachea deviated to R \u2193 Expansion R upper zone Percussion   Dull R upper zone Auscultation \u2193 Breath sounds with  central obstruction Inspection    Tachypnoea    Central cyanosis (if severe) Palpation \u2193 Expansion on R Percussion    Dull R mid-zone and axilla Auscultation    Bronchial breath sounds    and  \u2191 vocal resonance over    consolidation and whispering  pectoriloquy    Pleural rub if pleurisy Obscures R heart border on X-ray X-ray   Deviated trachea (to R)   Elevated horizontal fissure \u2193 Volume R hemithorax   Central (hilar) mass may  be seen Right pneumothorax Large right pleural effusion Inspection   Tachypnoea (pain, deflation   reflex) Palpation \u2193 Expansion R side Percussion   Resonant or hyper-resonant   on R Auscultation   Absent breath sounds on R Inspection    Tachypnoea Palpation \u2193 Expansion on R    Trachea and apex may be    moved to L Percussion    Stony dull    R mid- and lower zones Auscultation    Absent breath sounds and    vocal resonance R base    Bronchial breathing or     crackles above effusion Tension pneumothorax also causes Deviation of trachea to opposite side    Tachycardia and hypotension  Insets (Upper lobe collapse) http://3.bp.blogspot.com ;  (Pneumothorax) http://chestatlas.com ;  (Pleural effusion) www.ispub.com  \u2013 see p. 731.  645 RespiRatoRy disease morbidity and untimely death, with conditions such as  tuberculosis, pandemic influenza and pneumonia the  most important in world health terms. The increasing  prevalence of allergy, asthma and chronic obstructive  pulmonary disease (COPD) contributes to the overall  burden of chronic disease in the community. By 2025,  the number of cigarette smokers worldwide is antici- pated to increase to 1.5 billion, ensuring a growing  burden of tobacco-related respiratory conditions. Respiratory disease covers a breadth of pathologies,  including infectious, inflammatory, neoplastic and  degenerative processes. The practice of respiratory  medi cine thus requires collaboration with a range of  disciplines. Recent advances have improved the lives of  many patients with obstructive lung disease, cystic  fibrosis, obstructive sleep apnoea and pulmonary hyper- tension, but the outlook remains poor for lung and other  respiratory cancers, and for some of the fibrosing lung  conditions. AND PHYSIOLOGY thorax, bounded medially by the spine, the heart and the  mediastinum and inferiorly by the diaphragm. During  breathing, free movement of the lung surface relative to  the chest wall is facilitated by sliding contact between  the parietal and visceral pleura, which cover the inner  surface of the chest wall and the lung respectively, and  are normally in close apposition. Inspiration involves  downward contraction of the dome-shaped diaphragm  (innervated by the phrenic nerves originating from C3,  4 and 5) and upward, outward movement of the ribs   on the costovertebral joints, caused by contraction of   the external intercostal muscles (innervated by intercos- tal nerves originating from the thoracic spinal cord).  Expiration is largely passive, driven by elastic recoil   of the lungs. The conducting airways from the nose to the alveoli  connect the external environment with the extensive,  thin and vulnerable alveolar surface. As air is inhaled  through the upper airways, it is filtered in the nose,  heated to body temperature and fully saturated with  water vapour; partial recovery of this heat and moisture  occurs on expiration. Total airway cross-section is small- est in the glottis and trachea, making the central airway  particularly vulnerable to obstruction by foreign bodies  and tumours. Normal breath sounds originate mainly  from the rapid turbulent airflow in the larynx, trachea  and main bronchi. The multitude of small airways within the lung  parenchyma has a very large combined cross-sectional  area (over 300 cm2 in the third-generation respiratory  bronchioles), resulting in very slow flow rates. Airflow  is normally silent here, and gas transport occurs largely  by diffusion in the final generations. Major bronchial  and pulmonary divisions are shown in  Figure 19.1 . The acinus ( Fig. 19.2 ) is the gas exchange unit of the  lung and comprises branching respiratory bronchioles  3 3 Upper lobe 2 2 1 Upper lobe 1 4 1 1 2 1 Middle lobe 4 4 5 RIGHT LEFT Lower lobe Lower lobe 3 2 3 2 Spine Spine 2 Upper lobe Anterior 3 Upper lobe 3 2 1 1 1 lobe 2 1 1 4 4 4 2 3 Lower lobe Lower lobe 3 Lateral aspects of lungs The major bronchial divisions  and the fissures, lobes and segments  of the lungs. The angle of the oblique  fissure means that the left upper lobe is  largely anterior to the lower lobe. On the  right, the transverse fissure separates the  upper from the anteriorly placed middle lobe,  which is matched by the lingular segment on  the left side. The site of a lobe determines  whether physical signs are mainly anterior or  posterior. Each lobe is composed of two or  more bronchopulmonary segments that are  supplied by the main branches of each lobar  bronchus. Bronchopulmonary segments :RightUpper lobe : (1) Anterior, (2) Posterior,  (3) Apical.  Middle lobe : (1) Lateral,  (2) Medial.  Lower lobe : (1) Apical,  (2) Posterior basal, (3) Lateral basal,   (4) Anterior basal, (5) Medial basal.LeftUpper lobe : (1) Anterior, (2) Apical,  (3) Posterior, (4) Lingular.  Lower lobe :  (1) Apical, (2) Posterior basal, (3) Lateral  basal, (4) Anterior basal.  646 Functional anatomy and physiology  B C muscle Terminal bronchiole Bronchial artery Pulmonary artery Pulmonary vein Cartilage plates Bronchus Respiratory bronchiole Elastin fibres Bronchiole septum Alveolar capillaries Terminal bronchiole Alveoli Pores of Kohn Respiratory bronchiole Alveoli Functional anatomy of the lung. A The tapering, branching bronchus is armoured against compression by plates of cartilage. The more  distal bronchioles are collapsible, but held patent by surrounding elastic tissue.  B The unit of lung supplied by a terminal bronchiole is called an acinus.  The bronchiolar wall contains smooth muscle and elastin fibres. The latter also run through the alveolar walls. Gas exchange occurs in the alveoli, which  are connected to each other by the pores of Kohn.  C Vascular anatomy of an acinus. Both the pulmonary artery (carrying desaturated blood) and the  bronchial artery (systemic supply to airway tissue) run along the bronchus. The venous drainage to the left atrium follows the interlobular septa. From  www.Netter.com  \u2013 see p. 731. with the blood in the pulmonary capillaries (gas-to- blood distance  <  0.4  \u00b5 m), and oxygen uptake and CO2excretion occur. The alveoli are lined with flattened epi- thelial cells (type I pneumocytes) and a few, more cuboi- dal, type II pneumocytes. The latter produce surfactant,  which is a mixture of phospholipids that reduces surface  tension and counteracts the tendency of alveoli to col- lapse under surface tension. Type II pneumocytes can  divide to reconstitute type I pneumocytes after lung  injury. breath passes to the basal regions, which also receive the  greatest blood flow as a result of gravity. Elastin fibres  in alveolar walls maintain small airway patency by  radial traction on the airway walls. Even in health,  however, these small airways narrow during expiration  because they are surrounded by alveoli at higher pres- sure, but are prevented from collapsing by radial elastic  traction. The volume that can be exhaled is thus limited  purely by the capacity of the expiratory muscles to  distort the chest wall inwards. In emphysema, loss of  alveolar walls leaves the small airways unsupported,  and their collapse on expiration causes air trapping and  high end-expiratory volume (p. 673).Control of breathingThe respiratory motor neurons in the posterior medulla  oblongata are the origin of the respiratory cycle. Their  activity is modulated by multiple external inputs in  health and in disease (see  Fig. 19.10 , p. 657): \u2022 Central chemoreceptors in the ventrolateral   medulla sense the pH of the cerebrospinal fluid  (CSF) and are indirectly stimulated by a rise in  arterial  P CO2. \u2022 The carotid bodies sense hypoxaemia but are  mainly activated by arterial  P O2 values below 8 KPa  (60 mmHg). They are also sensitised to hypoxia by  raised arterial  P CO2. \u2022 Muscle spindles in the respiratory muscles sense  and collagen fibres (see  Fig. 19.2 ). The volume of the  lungs at the end of a tidal (\u2018normal\u2019) breath out is called  the functional residual capacity (FRC). At this volume,  the inward elastic recoil of the lungs (resulting from  elastin fibres and surface tension in the alveolar lining  fluid) is balanced by the resistance of the chest wall to  inward distortion from its resting shape, causing nega- tive pressure in the pleural space. Elastin fibres allow   the lung to be easily distended at physiological lung  volumes, but collagen fibres cause increasing stiffness  as full inflation is approached so that, in health, the  maximum inspiratory volume is limited by the lung  (rather than the chest wall). Within the lung, the weight  of tissue compresses the dependent regions and distends  the uppermost parts, so a greater portion of an inhaled   Respiratory function in old age disease processes in the interstitium. Reserve capacity : a significant reduction in function can  breathing, but the ability to combat acute disease is reduced. breathing. Decline in FEV1: the FEV1/FVC (forced expiratory volume/ forced vital capacity, p. 652) ratio falls by around 0.2% per  year from 70% at the age of 40\u201345 years, due to a decline  in elastic recoil in the small airways with age. Smoking  accelerates this decline threefold on average. Symptoms  usually occur only when FEV1 drops below 50% of predicted. \u2022  Increasing ventilation \u2013 perfusion mismatch : the reduction  in elastic recoil causes a tendency for the small airways to  collapse during expiration, particularly in dependent areas of  the lungs, thus reducing ventilation. \u2022  Reduced ventilatory responses to hypoxia and  hypercapnia : older people may be less tachypnoeic for any  given fall in  Pa O2 or rise in  Pa CO2. \u2022  Impaired defences against infection : due to reduced  numbers of glandular epithelial cells, which lead to a  reduction in protective mucus. \u2022  Decline in maximum oxygen uptake : due to a combination  the pulmonary circulationTo achieve optimal gas exchange within the lungs, the  regional distribution of ventilation and perfusion must  be matched. At segmental and subsegmental level,  hypoxia constricts pulmonary arterioles and airway CO2dilates bronchi, helping to maintain good regional  matching of ventilation and perfusion. Lung disease  may create regions of relative underventilation or under- perfusion, which disturb this regional matching, causing  respiratory failure (p. 663). In addition to causing  ventilation\u2013perfusion mismatch, diseases that destroy  capillaries or thicken the alveolar capillary membrane  (e.g. emphysema or fibrosis) can impair gas diffusion  directly. The pulmonary circulation in health operates at low  cardiovascular systems. This leads to a reduction in  cardiorespiratory reserve and exercise capacity. \u2022  Loss of chest wall compliance : due to reduced  intervertebral disc spaces and ossification of the costal  cartilages; respiratory muscle strength and endurance also  decline. These changes only become important in the  presence of other respiratory disease. M modate large increases in flow with minimal rise in pres- sure, such as during exercise. Pulmonary hypertension  occurs when vessels are destroyed by emphysema,  obstructed by thrombus, involved in interstitial inflam- mation or thickened by pulmonary vascular disease. The  right ventricle responds by hypertrophy, with right axis  deviation and P pulmonale on the ECG. Pulmonary  hypertension with hypoxia and hypercapnia is associ- ated with generalised salt and water retention (\u2018cor pul- monale\u2019), with elevation of the jugular venous pressure  (JVP) and peripheral oedema. This is thought to result  mainly from a failure of the hypoxic and hypercapnic  kidney to excrete sufficient salt and water. C The mucociliary escalator. Scanning electron micrograph of  the respiratory epithelium showing large numbers of cilia (C) overlaid by  the mucus \u2018raft\u2019 (M).  smaller particles settling on the mucosa are cleared  towards the oropharynx by the columnar ciliated epithe- lium which covers the turbinates and septum ( Fig. 19.3 ).  During cough, expiratory muscle effort against a closed  glottis results in high intrathoracic pressure, which is  then released explosively. The flexible posterior tracheal  wall is pushed inwards by the high surrounding pres- sure, which reduces tracheal cross-section and thus max- imises the airspeed to achieve effective expectoration.  The larynx also acts as a sphincter, protecting the airway  during swallowing and vomiting. are maintained by close cooperation between the innate  and adaptive immune responses ( pp. 72 and 76 ). The innate response in the lungs is characterised  diseases, including Kartagener\u2019s syndrome, Young\u2019s  syndrome and ciliary dysmotility syndrome, which are  cha racterised by repeated sino-pulmonary infections  and bronchiectasis. Airway secretions contain an array of antimicrobial  peptides (such as defensins, immunoglobulin A (IgA)  and lysozyme), antiproteinases and antioxidants. Many  assist with the opsonisation and killing of bacteria, and  the regulation of the powerful proteolytic enzymes  secreted by inflammatory cells. In particular,  \u03b11- antiproteinase (A1Pi) regulates neutrophil elastase, and  deficiency of this may be associated with premature  emphysema. by a number of non-specific defence mechanisms.  Inhaled particulate matter is trapped in airway mucus  and cleared by the mucociliary escalator. Cigarette  smoke increases mucus secretion but reduces mucocili- ary clearance and predisposes towards lower respira- tory tract infections, including pneumonia. Defective   How to interpret a chest X-ray orientation Films are postero-anterior (PA) unless   marked AP to denote that they are   antero-posterior Lung fields Equal translucency? Check horizontal fissure from right   hilum to sixth rib at the anterior   axillary line Masses? Consolidation? Cavitation? Lung apices Check behind the clavicles: Masses?  Consolidation? Cavitation? other particulate matter. They are unable to digest inor- ganic agents, such as asbestos or silica, which lead to  their death and the release of powerful proteolytic  enzymes that cause parenchymal damage. Neutrophil  numbers in the airway are low, but the pulmonary cir- culation contains a marginated pool that may be  recruited rapidly in response to bacterial infection. This  may explain the prominence of lung injury in sepsis  syndromes and trauma. Adaptive immunity is characterised by the specificity  of the response and the development of memory. Lung  dendritic cells facilitate antigen presentation to T and B  lymphocytes. Central? (Midway between the clavicular  heads) Paratracheal mass? Goitre? DISEASE Normal shape? Cardiothoracic ratio (should be  <  half  the intrathoracic diameter) Retrocardiac mass? haem atological and biochemical tests usually indicate  the likely diagnosis and differential. A number of other  investigations are normally required to confirm the  diagnosis and/or monitor disease activity. Left should be higher than right Shape? (Should be concave laterally;   if convex, consider mass or  lymphadenopathy) Density? Right should be higher than left Hyperinflation? (No more than 10 ribs   should be visible posteriorly above the  diaphragm) Costophrenic  angles Acute and well defined? (Pleural fluid or  thickening, if not) Soft tissues Breast shadows in females Chest wall for masses or subcutaneous  emphysema Bones Ribs, vertebrae, scapulae and clavicles Any fracture visible at bone margins or  lucencies? of having chest disease. A postero-anterior (PA) film  provides information on the lung fields, heart, mediasti- num, vascular structures and thoracic cage ( Fig. 19.4 ).  Additional information may be obtained from a lateral  film, particularly if pathology is suspected behind the  heart shadow or deep in the diaphragmatic sulci. An  approach to interpreting the chest X-ray is given in  Box 19.2 , and common abnormalities are listed in  Box 19.3 . Trachea Clavicular heads symmetrical either side of spine \u2013 no rotation Medial border of scapula Aortic arch Right hilum Left hilum Right atrial border Left ventricular border Cardiac apex Right costophrenic angle Right hemidiaphragm Left hemidiaphragm (normally lower than right) Right cardiophrenic angle Gastric air bubble The normal chest X-ray.The lung markings consist of branching  and tapering lines radiating out from the  hila. Where airways and vessels turn  towards the film, they can appear as  open or filled circles (see upper pole of  right hilum). The scapulae may overlie  the lung fields; trace the edge   of bony structures to avoid mistaking  them for pleural or pulmonary shadows.  To check for hyperinflation, count the  ribs; if more than 10 are visible  posteriorly above the diaphragm, the  lungs are hyperinflated. From Innes 2009  \u2013 see p. 731. 649 RespiRatoRy disease  Common chest X-ray abnormalities upper  lobe Pulmonary and pleural shadowing\u2022  Consolidation : infection, infarction, inflammation, and rarely  bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma \u2022  Lobar collapse : mucus plugging, tumour, compression by  lymph nodes \u2022  Solitary nodule : see page 660 \u2022  Multiple nodules : miliary tuberculosis (TB), dust inhalation,  rheumatoid disease \u2022  Ring shadows, tramlines and tubular shadows :  bronchiectasis \u2022  Cavitating lesions : tumour, abscess, infarct, pneumonia  ( Staphylococcus/Klebsiella ), granulomatosis with polyangiitis \u2022  Reticular, nodular and reticulonodular shadows : diffuse  parenchymal lung disease, infection \u2022  Pleural abnormalities : fluid, plaques, tumour \u2022 Pneumothorax \u2022 Oligaemia lower  lobe Hilar abnormalities\u2022  Unilateral hilar enlargement:  TB, bronchial carcinoma,  lymphoma \u2022  Bilateral hilar enlargement:  sarcoid, lymphoma, TB,  silicosis \u2022 Surgical emphysema upper  lobe middle lobe consolidation should not change the position of the  mediastinum and the presence of an air bronchogram  means that proximal bronchi are patent. Collapse  (implying obstruction of the lobar bronchus) is accom- panied by loss of volume and displacement of the medi- astinum towards the affected side ( Fig. 19.5 ). The presence of ring shadows (thickened bronchi  seen end-on), tramline shadows (thickened bronchi side- on) or tubular shadows (bronchi filled with secretions)  suggests bronchiectasis, but computed tomography is a  much more sensitive test than plain X-ray in bron- chiectasis. The presence of pleural fluid is suggested by  a dense basal shadow, which, in the erect patient,  ascends towards the axilla (p. 645). In large pulmonary  embolism, relative oligaemia may cause a lung field to  appear abnormally dark. lower  lobe Radiological features of lobar collapse caused by  bronchial obstruction. The dotted line in the drawings represents the  normal position of the diaphragm. The dark pink area represents the extent  of shadowing seen on the X-ray.  650 of the pulmonary parenchyma, mediastinum, pleura  and bony structures. The displayed range of densities  can be adjusted to highlight different structures, such as  the lung parenchyma, the mediastinal vascular struc- tures or bone. Sophisticated software facilitates three- dimensional reconstruction of the thorax and virtual  bronchoscopy. CT is superior to chest radiography in determining  the position and size of a pulmonary lesion and whether  calcification or cavitation is present. It is now routinely  used in the assessment of patients with suspected lung  allowing safe pleural aspiration, biopsy and intercostal  chest drain insertion. Ultrasound can also be used to  guide needle biopsy of superficial lymph node or chest  wall masses and provides useful information on the  shape and movement of the diaphragm. Endobronchial  ultrasound (EBUS) is described below. cancer and facilitates guided percutaneous needle  biopsy. Information on tumour stage may be gained by  examining the mediastinum, liver and adrenal glands. High-resolution CT (HRCT) uses thin sections to  provide detailed images of the pulmonary parenchyma  and is particularly useful in assessing diffuse parenchy- mal lung disease, identifying bronchiectasis ( Fig. 19.30 ,  p. 679), and assessing type and extent of emphysema. laryngoscope and this is useful in cases of suspected  vocal cord dysfunction, when paradoxical movement of  the vocal cords may mimic asthma. Left-sided lung  tumours may involve the left recurrent laryngeal nerve,  paralysing the left vocal cord and leading to a hoarse  voice and a \u2018bovine\u2019 cough. investigation of choice in the diagnosis of pulmonary  thromboembolism (see  Fig. 19.69 , p. 679), when it may  either confirm the suspected embolism or highlight   an alternative diagnosis. It has largely replaced the  radioisotope-based ventilation\u2013perfusion scan, although  the latter continues to provide useful infor mation in the  pre-operative assessment of patients being considered  for lung resection. In pulmonary hypertension, Doppler  echocardiographic assessment of tricuspid regurgitant  jets allows accurate non-invasive measurement of pul- monary artery pressure in most cases. Right heart cath- eterisation is still used in the investigation of patients  with pulmonary hypertension in specialised centres, as  it permits accurate measurement of response to pulmo- nary vasodilators. be inspected using a flexible bronchoscope. Flexible  bronchoscopy is usually performed under local anaes- thesia with sedation, on an outpatient basis. Abnormal  tissue in the bronchial lumen or wall can be biopsied,  and bronchial brushings, washings or aspirates can be  taken for cytological or bacteriological examination.  Small biopsy specimens of lung tissue, taken by forceps  passed through the bronchial wall (transbronchial biop- sies), may be helpful in the diagnosis of bronchocentric  disorders such as sarcoid, hypersensitivity pneumonitis  and diffuse malignancy, but are generally too small to  be of diagnostic value in other diffuse parenchymal pul- monary disease (p. 706). Transbronchial needle aspira- tion (TBNA) may be used to sample mediastinal lymph  nodes and to stage lung cancer. Rigid bronchoscopy requires general anaesthesia and  is reserved for specific situations, such as massive haem- optysis or removal of foreign bodies (see  Fig. 19.9 ,   p. 655). Endobronchial laser therapy and endobronchial  stenting may be easier with rigid bronchoscopy. the ability of malignant tissue to absorb and metabo lise  glucose avidly. The radiotracer 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose  (FDG) is infused and rapidly taken up by malignant  tissue. It is then phosphorylated but cannot be metabo- lised further, becoming \u2018trapped\u2019 in the cell. PET is  useful in the investigation of pulmonary nodules, and in  staging mediastinal lymph nodes and distal metastatic  disease in patients with lung cancer. The negative pre- dictive value is high; however, the positive predictive  value is poor. Co-registration of PET and CT (PET-CT)  enhances localisation and characterisation of metaboli- cally active deposits ( Fig. 19.6 ). Future advances will   see the combination of PET and magnetic resonance  imaging (MRI). fluid, which appears as a hypoechoic space. It also  allows direct visualisation of the diaphragm and solid  the diagnosis and staging of lung cancer and may  confirm the diagnosis of non-malignant conditions,   such as tuberculosis or sarcoidosis. Endobronchial  C A Computed tomography and positron emission tomography combined to reveal intrathoracic metastases. A In a patient with  lung cancer, CT shows some posterior pleural thickening.  B PET scanning reveals FDG uptake in two pleural lesions (arrows).  C The lesions are  highlighted in yellow in the combined PET/CT image. From  http://radiology.rsnajnls.org  \u2013 see p. 731. 651 RespiRatoRy disease allows directed needle aspiration from peribronchial  nodes and is used increasingly to determine disease  extent. Lymph nodes down to the main carina can also  be sampled using a mediastinoscope passed through a  small incision at the suprasternal notch under general  anaesthetic. Lymph nodes in the lower mediastinum  may be biopsied via the oesophagus using endoscopic  ultrasound (EUS), an oesophageal endoscope equipped  with an ultrasound transducer and biopsy needle. be made. This is particularly important in suspected  malignancy or in characterising the pathological changes  in interstitial lung disease. Important causative organ- isms, such as  M. tuberculosis ,  Pneumocystis jirovecii  or  fungi, may be identified in bronchial washings, brush- ings or transbronchial biopsies. Cytological examination of exfoliated cells in pleural  fluid or bronchial brushings and washings, or of fine  needle aspirates from lymph nodes or pulmonary  lesions, can support a diagnosis of malignancy but, if  this is indeterminate, a larger tissue biopsy is often   necessary. Differential cell counts in bronchial lavage  fluid may help to distinguish pulmonary changes due   to sarcoidosis (p. 709) from those caused by idiopathic  pulmonary fibrosis (p. 706) or hypersensitivity pneu- monitis (p. 719). or CT, has largely replaced the traditional \u2018blind\u2019 method  of pleural biopsy using an Abram\u2019s needle. Thoracos- copy, which involves the insertion of an endoscope  through the chest wall, facilitates biopsy under direct  vision and is performed by many surgeons and an  increasing number of physicians. Immunological and serological tests assess functional impairment, and monitor treatment or  progression of disease. Airway narrowing, lung volume  and gas exchange capacity are quantified and compared  with normal values adjusted for age, gender, height   and ethnic origin. In diseases characterised by airway  narrowing (e.g. asthma, bronchitis and emphysema),  maximum expiratory flow is limited by dynamic com- pression of small intrathoracic airways, some of which  may close completely during expiration, limiting the  volume that can be expired (\u2018obstructive\u2019 defect). Hyper- inflation of the chest results, and can become extreme if  elastic recoil is also lost due to parenchymal destruction,  as in emphysema. In contrast, diseases that cause inter- stitial inflammation and/or fibrosis lead to progressive  loss of lung volume (\u2018restrictive\u2019 defect) with normal  expiratory flow rates. Typical laboratory traces are illus- trated in  Figure 19.7 . The presence of pneumococcal antigen (revealed by  counter-immunoelectrophoresis) in sputum, blood or  urine may be of diagnostic importance in pneumonia.  Influenza viruses can be detected in throat swab samples  by fluorescent antibody techniques. In blood, high or  rising antibody titres to specific organisms (such as  Legionella ,  Mycoplasma ,  Chlamydia  or viruses) may even- tually clinch a diagnosis suspected on clinical grounds  but early diagnosis of  Legionella  is best done by urine  antigen testing. Precipitating antibodies may indicate a  reaction to fungi such as  Aspergillus  (p. 697) or to antigens  involved in hypersensitivity pneumonitis (p. 719). Total  levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE), and levels of IgE  directed against specific antigens, can be useful in assess- ing the contribution of allergy to respiratory disease.Skin testsThe tuberculin test (p. 695) may be of value in the diag- nosis of tuberculosis. Skin hypersensitivity tests are  useful in the investigation of allergic diseases ( p. 89 ). chial washings and aspirates can be examined for  bacteria, fungi and viruses. In some cases, as when  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  is isolated, the information is  diagnostically conclusive but, in others, the findings  must be interpreted in conjunction with the results of  clinical and radiological examination. The use of hypertonic saline to induce expectoration  of sputum is useful in facilitating the collection of speci- mens for microbiology, particularly in patients in whom  more invasive procedures, such as bronchoscopy, are  not possible. The technique also allows assessment of  the inflammatory cell population of the airway, which is  a useful research tool in many conditions, including  asthma, COPD and interstitial lung disease. obstructionAirway narrowing is assessed by asking patients to blow  out as hard and as fast as they can into a peak flow meter  or a spirometer. Peak flow meters are cheap and conven- ient for home monitoring of peak expiratory flow (PEF)  in the detection and monitoring of asthma, but results  are effort-dependent. More accurate and reproducible  measures are obtained by inhaling fully, then exhaling  at maximum effort into a spirometer. The forced expired  volume in 1 second (FEV1) is the volume exhaled in  the first second, and the forced vital capacity (FVC) is  the total volume exhaled. FEV1 is disproportionately  reduced in airflow obstruction, resulting in FEV1/FVC  ratios of less than 70%. In this situation, spirometry  should be repeated following inhaled short-acting  \u03b22- adrenoceptor agonists (e.g. salbutamol); a large improve- ment in FEV1 (over 400 mL) and variability in peak flow  over time are features of asthma (p. 668). To distinguish large airway narrowing (e.g. tracheal  stenosis or compression) from small airway narrowing,  flow/volume loops are recorded using spirometry.  These display flow in relation to lung volume (rather  than time) during maximum expiration and inspiration,  and the pattern of flow reveals the site of airflow obstruc- tion (see  Fig. 19.7 ).  lymph node or lung often allows a \u2018tissue diagnosis\u2019 to  B Expiration Flow FVC FEV1 Inspiration Time 1 sec Normal COPD Fibrosis Tracheal obstruction 4 5 Total lung capacity Functional residual capacity Residual volume 21 4 Inspiratory capacity 3 2 1 Vital capacity 5 Time Respiratory function tests in health and disease. A Volume/time traces from forced expiration in a normal subject, in COPD and in  fibrosis. COPD causes slow, prolonged and limited exhalation. In fibrosis, forced expiration results in rapid expulsion of a reduced forced vital capacity  (FVC). Forced expiratory volume (FEV1) is reduced in both diseases but is disproportionately reduced, compared to FVC, in COPD.  B The same data  plotted as flow/volume loops. In COPD, collapse of intrathoracic airways limits flow, particularly during mid- and late expiration. The blue trace illustrates  large airway obstruction, which particularly limits peak flow rates.  C Lung volume measurement. Volume/time graphs during quiet breathing with a single  maximal breath in and out. COPD causes hyperinflation with increased residual volume. Fibrosis causes a proportional reduction in all lung volumes.   How to interpret respiratory  function abnormalities Chronic  bronchitis Emphysema Pulmonary  fibrosis \u2193\u2193 \u2193\u2193 \u2193 VC \u2193 \u2193 \u2193 \u2193\u2193 FEV1/VC \u2193 \u2193 \u2193 \u2192 / \u2191 TLCO\u2192 \u2192 \u2193\u2193 \u2193\u2193 KCO\u2192 / \u2191 \u2192 \u2193 \u2192 / \u2193 TLC \u2192 / \u2191 \u2191 \u2191\u2191 \u2193 RV \u2192 / \u2191 \u2191 \u2191\u2191 \u2193 =  residual volume; see text for other abbreviations) amount of air that can be expelled from the lungs after  the deepest possible breath) can be measured by spiro- metry. Total lung capacity (TLC \u2013 the total amount of air  in the lungs after taking the deepest breath possible) can  be measured by asking the patient to rebreathe an inert  non-absorbed gas (usually helium) and recording how  much the test gas is diluted by lung gas. This measures  the volume of intrathoracic gas that mixes with tidal  breaths. Alternatively, lung volume may be measured  by body plethysmography, which determines the  pressure/volume relationship of the thorax. This method  measures total intrathoracic gas volume, including  poorly ventilated areas such as bullae. Pa O2and  Pa CO2, and derived bicarbonate concentration in an  arterial blood sample is essential to assess the degree  and type of respiratory failure, and for measuring acid\u2013 base status. This is discussed in detail on pages 663 and  442. Interpretation of results is made easier by blood   gas diagrams ( Fig. 19.8 ), which indicate whether any   acidosis or alkalosis is due to acute or chronic respira- tory derangements of  Pa CO2, or to metabolic causes.  Pulse oximeters with finger or ear probes measure the  patients inhale a test mixture of 0.3% carbon monoxide,  which is taken up avidly by haemoglobin in pulmo- nary capillaries. After a short breath-hold, the rate of  disappearance of CO into the circulation is calculated  from a sample of expirate, and expressed as the TLCO or  carbon monoxide transfer factor. Helium is also  included in the test breath to allow calculation of the  volume of lung examined by the test breath. Transfer  factor expressed per unit lung volume is termed KCO.  Common respiratory function abnormalities are sum- marised in  Box 19.4 . 7.0  Cough 10 15 20 25 90 Common causes Clinical features \u2013] nmol/L 7.1 80 30 Post-nasal drip History of chronic  rhinitis 7.2 60 40 Laryngitis, tumour,  whooping cough,  croup 50 acidosis 40 7.5 altered, harsh or  painful cough Paroxysms of cough,  often associated with  stridor alkalosis Tracheitis Raw retrosternal pain  with cough Bronchitis (acute)  and COPD Dry or productive,  worse in mornings 10 8 6 4 2 12 0 Usually dry, worse at  night 60 45 30 15 90 0 mmHg Arterial  Pa CO2 bronchitis Features similar to  asthma but AHR  absent carcinoma Persistent (often with  haemoptysis) parenchyma Tuberculosis Productive (often  with haemoptysis) Pneumonia Bronchiectasis Dry initially,  productive later  Productive, changes  in posture induce  sputum production Fig. 19.8 Changes in blood [H+], PaCO2 and plasma [HCO3 \u2212] in  acid\u2013base disorders. The rectangle indicates normal limits for [H+] and  Pa CO2. The bands represent 95% confidence limits of single disturbances  in human blood. To determine the likely cause of an acid \u2013 base disorder,  plot the values of [H+] and  Pa CO2 from an arterial blood gas measurement..The diagram indicates whether any acidosis or alkalosis results primarily  from a respiratory disorder of  Pa CO2 or from a metabolic derangement.  Adapted from Flenley 1971 \u2013 see p. 732. oedema Often at night (may  be productive of  pink, frothy sputum) Interstitial fibrosis Dry and distressing Drug side-effect ACE inhibitors Dry cough deoxygenated blood to calculate its oxygen saturation  ( Sa O2). This allows non-invasive continuous assessment  of oxygen saturation in patients, which is useful in  assessing hypoxaemia and its response to therapy. =  angiotensin-converting enzyme; AHR  =  airway hyper-reactivity;  COPD  =  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Based on Crompton GK. The respiratory system. In: Munro JF, Campbell  IW. Macleod\u2019s clinical examination. 10th edn. Edinburgh: Churchill  Livingstone; 2000 (p. 119); copyright Elsevier. or in patients complaining only of exercise-induced  symptoms. Exercise testing with spirometry before and  after can help demonstrate exercise-induced asthma.  Walk tests include the self-paced 6-minute walk and   the externally paced incremental \u2018shuttle\u2019 test, where  patients walk at increasing pace between two cones  10 m apart. These provide simple, repeatable assess- ments of disability and response to treatment. Cardio- pulmonary bicycle exercise testing, with measurement  of metabolic gas exchange, ventilation and ECG changes,  is useful for quantifying exercise limitation and detect- ing occult cardiovascular or respiratory limitation in a  breathless patient. RESPIRATORY DISEASE induced by changes in air temperature or exposure to  irritants, such as cigarette smoke or perfumes. The char- acteristics of cough originating at various levels of the  respiratory tract are detailed in  Box 19.5 . The explosive quality of a normal cough is lost in  patients with respiratory muscle paralysis or vocal cord  palsy. Paralysis of a single vocal cord gives rise to   a prolonged, low-pitched, inefficient \u2018bovine\u2019 cough  accompanied by hoarseness. Coexistence of an inspira- tory noise (stridor) indicates partial obstruction of a  major airway (e.g. laryngeal oedema, tracheal tumour,  scarring, compression or inhaled foreign body) and  requires urgent investigation and treatment. Sputum  production is common in patients with acute or chronic  cough, and its nature and appearance can provide clues  to the aetiology (p. 644). lower respiratory tract infection, post-nasal drip result- ing from rhinitis or sinusitis, aspiration of a foreign  Cough is the most frequent symptom of respiratory  disease and is caused by stimulation of sensory nerves  in the mucosa of the pharynx, larynx, trachea and  bronchi. Acute sensitisation of the normal cough reflex  A Inhaled foreign body. A Chest X-ray showing a  tooth lodged in a main bronchus. B Bronchoscopic appearance of  inhaled foreign body (tooth) with a  covering mucous film.  body, or throat-clearing secondary to laryngitis or   pharyngitis. When cough occurs in the context of more  serious diseases, such as pneumonia, aspiration, conges- tive heart failure or pulmonary embolism, it is usually  easy to diagnose from other clinical features. Patients with chronic cough present more of a   In cardiac failure, pulmonary congestion reduces  lung compliance and can also obstruct the small airways.  Reduced cardiac output also limits oxygen supply to the  skeletal muscles during exercise, causing early lactic aci- daemia and further stimulating breathing via the central  chemoreceptors. Breathlessness and the effects of treatment can be  quantified using a symptom scale. Patients tend to  report breathlessness in proportion to the sum of the  above stimuli to breathe. Individual patients differ  greatly in the intensity of breathlessness reported for a  given set of circumstances, but breathlessness scores  during exercise within individuals are reproducible, and  can be used to monitor the effects of therapy. exertional symptoms or as an emergency with acute  breathlessness, when symptoms are prominent even at  rest. The causes can be classified accordingly ( Box 19.6 ). careful clinical history. Key questions include: challenge, especially when physical examination, chest  X-ray and lung function studies are normal. In this  context, it is most often explained by cough-variant  asthma (where cough may be the principal or exclusive  clinical manifestation), post-nasal drip secondary to  nasal or sinus disease, or gastro-oesophageal reflux with  aspiration. Diagnosis of the latter may require ambula- tory oesophageal pH monitoring or a prolonged trial of  anti-reflux therapy ( p. 865 ). Between 10% and 15% of  patients (particularly women) taking angiotensin- converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors develop a drug- induced chronic cough.  Bordetella pertussis  infection in  adults (p. 682) can also result in protracted cough and  should be suspected in those in close contact with chil- dren. While most patients with a bronchogenic carci- noma have an abnormal chest X-ray on presentation,  fibreoptic bronchoscopy or thoracic CT is advisable in  most adults (especially smokers) with otherwise unex- plained cough of recent onset, as this may reveal a small  endobronchial tumour or unexpected foreign body ( Fig. 19.9 ). In a small percentage of patients, dry cough may  be the presenting feature of interstitial lung disease. of an uncomfortable need to breathe. It is unusual among  sensations, as it has no defined receptors, no localised  representation in the brain, and multiple causes both in  health (e.g. exercise) and in diseases of the lungs, heart  or muscles. ventilation, and a tendency for progressive hyperinfla- tion during exercise. Breathlessness is mainly apparent  when walking, and patients usually report minimal  symptoms at rest and overnight. In contrast, patients  with significant asthma are often woken from their sleep  by breathlessness with chest tightness and wheeze. Orthopnoea, however, is common in COPD, as well  as in heart disease, because airflow obstruction is made  worse by cranial displacement of the diaphragm by the  abdominal contents when recumbent, so many patients  choose to sleep propped up. It may thus not be a useful  differentiating symptom, unless there is a clear history  of previous angina or infarction to suggest cardiac  disease. shown in  Figure 19.10 . Respiratory diseases can stimu- late breathing and dyspnoea by: \u2022 stimulating intrapulmonary sensory nerves (e.g.  pneumothorax, interstitial inflammation and  pulmonary embolus) \u2022 increasing the mechanical load on the respiratory  approximate distance the patient can walk on the level  should be documented, along with capacity to climb  muscles (e.g. airflow obstruction or pulmonary  fibrosis) Cortical drive Limbic drives (emotion) IX Central chemoreceptors ( \u2193 CSF pH) Carotid body ( \u2193 Pa O2,  \u2191 Pa CO2) Spinal afferents Vagal lung afferents Type II respiratory failure,  \u2191 Pa CO2 + acidosis Altered V/Q Hypoxaemia Pulmonary embolus Airway obstruction \u2022 Asthma \u2022 Emphysema Interstitial disease \u2022 Inflammation \u2022 Infection \u2022 Fibrosis Pulmonary fibrosis Increased mechanical load Deflation \u2022 Pneumothorax \u2022 Collapse \u2022 Effusion Respiratory stimuli contributing to breathlessness. Mechanisms by which disease can stimulate the respiratory motor neurons in the  medulla. Breathlessness is usually felt in proportion to the sum of these stimuli. Further explanation is given on page 543. ( \ufffd \ufffd V / Q =  ventilation/perfusion  match)   Causes of breathlessness Acute dyspnoea Chronic exertional dyspnoea * Acute pulmonary oedema ( p. 543 ) Chronic heart failure ( p. 543 ) Myocardial ischaemia (angina equivalent) ( p. 544 ) Respiratory * Acute severe asthma * Acute exacerbation of COPD * Pneumothorax * Pneumonia * Pulmonary embolus ARDS Inhaled foreign body (especially in children) Lobar collapse Laryngeal oedema (e.g. anaphylaxis) * COPD * Chronic asthma Bronchial carcinoma Interstitial lung disease (sarcoidosis, fibrosing alveolitis,  extrinsic allergic alveolitis, pneumoconiosis) Chronic pulmonary thromboembolism Lymphatic carcinomatosis (may cause intolerable  breathlessness) Large pleural effusion(s) Severe anaemia Obesity Deconditioning Others Metabolic acidosis (e.g. diabetic ketoacidosis, lactic  acidosis, uraemia, overdose of salicylates, ethylene glycol  poisoning) Psychogenic hyperventilation (anxiety or panic-related) =  acute respiratory distress syndrome; COPD  =  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) a hallmark of asthma; in mild asthma, the patient may  be free of symptoms and signs when well. Gradual, pro- gressive loss of exercise capacity over months and years,  with consistent disability over days, is typical of COPD.  When asthma is suspected, the degree of variability is  best documented by home peak flow monitoring. Relentless, progressive breathlessness that is also  present at rest, often accompanied by a dry cough, sug- gests interstitial fibrosis. Impaired left ventricular func- tion can also cause chronic exertional breathlessness,  cough and wheeze. A history of angina, hypertension or  myocardial infarction raises the possibility of a cardiac  cause. This may be confirmed by a displaced apex beat,  can occur in severe cor pulmonale). The chest X-ray may  show cardiomegaly, and an electrocardiogram (ECG)  and echocardiogram may provide evidence of left ven- tricular disease. Measurement of arterial blood gases  may help, as, in the absence of an intracardiac shunt or  pulmonary oedema, the  Pa O2 in cardiac disease is  normal and the  Pa CO2 is low or normal. childhood or at school?When present, a history of childhood wheeze increases  the likelihood of asthma, although this history may be  absent in late-onset asthma. A history of atopic allergy  also increases the likelihood of asthma. CT showing retrosternal multinodular goitre (small  arrow) causing acute severe breathlessness and stridor due to  tracheal compression (large arrow). be confirmed by routine investigations, including chest  X-ray, ECG and arterial blood gases. Specific features  that aid the diagnosis of the important causes are shown  in  Box 19.8 . your breathlessness?Digital or perioral paraesthesiae and a feeling that \u2018I  cannot get a deep enough breath in\u2019 are typical features  of psychogenic hyperventilation, but this cannot be  diagnosed until investigations have excluded other  potential causes. Additional symptoms include light- headedness, central chest discomfort or even carpopedal  spasm due to acute respiratory alkalosis. These alarming  symptoms may provoke further anxiety and exacerbate  hyperventilation. Psychogenic breathlessness rarely dis- turbs sleep, frequently occurs at rest, may be provoked  by stressful situations and may even be relieved by exer- cise. The Nijmegen questionnaire can be used to score  some of the typical symptoms of hyperventilation ( Box 19.7 ). Arterial blood gases show normal  P O2, low  P CO2and alkalosis. Pleuritic chest pain in a patient with chronic breath- of the breathlessness and whether associated cardiovas- cular symptoms (chest pain, palpitations, sweating and  nausea) or respiratory symptoms (cough, wheeze, haem- optysis, stridor \u2013  Fig. 19.11 ) are present. A previous  history of repeated episodes of left ventricular failure,  asthma or exacerbations of COPD is valuable. In   the severely ill patient, it may be necessary to obtain the  history from accompanying witnesses. In children, the  possibility of inhalation of a foreign body (see  Fig. 19.9 )  or acute epiglottitis should always be considered. \u2022 level of consciousness \u2022 degree of central cyanosis \u2022 evidence of anaphylaxis (urticaria or   lessness, particularly if it occurs in more than one site  over time, should raise suspicion of thromboembolic  disease. Thromboembolism may occasionally present as  chronic breathlessness with no other specific features,  and should always be considered before a diagnosis of  psychogenic hyperventilation is made. Morning headache is an important symptom in  patients with breathlessness, as it may signal the onset  of carbon dioxide retention and respiratory failure. This  is particularly significant in patients with musculoskel- etal disease impairing respiratory function (e.g. kypho- scoliosis or muscular dystrophy). angioedema) \u2022 patency of the upper airway \u2022 ability to speak (in single words or sentences) \u2022 cardiovascular status (heart rate and rhythm,   emergencies. The history and a rapid but careful   Factors suggesting psychogenic  hyperventilation \u2022 Frequent sighing/erratic ventilation at rest \u2022 Short breath-holding time in the absence of severe  respiratory disease \u2022 Difficulty in performing and/or inconsistent spirometry  measures \u2022 High score (over 26) on Nijmegen questionnaire \u2022 Induction of symptoms during submaximal hyperventilation \u2022 Resting end-tidal CO2<  4.5% \u2022 Associated digital paraesthesiae perfusion). Pulmonary oedema is suggested by pink, frothy  sputum and bi-basal crackles; asthma or COPD by  wheeze and prolonged expiration; pneumothorax by a  silent resonant hemithorax; and pulmonary embolus by  severe breathlessness with normal breath sounds. The  peak expiratory flow should be measured whenever  possible. Leg swelling may suggest cardiac failure or,   if asymmetrical, venous thrombosis. Arterial blood  gases, a chest X-ray and an ECG should be obtained to  confirm the clinical diagnosis, and high concentrations  of oxygen given pending results. Urgent endotracheal  intubation ( p. 194 ) may become necessary if the con- scious level declines or if severe respiratory acidosis is  present.  Differential diagnosis of acute breathlessness History Signs CXR ABG ECG oedema \u2193 Pa O2\u2193 Pa CO2 orthopnoea, cardiac  history * Cardiomegaly,  oedema/pleural  effusions * Sinus tachycardia,  ischaemia * ,  arrhythmia Central cyanosis,  \u2191 JVP,  sweating, cool  extremities, basal  crackles * \u2193 Pa O2\u2193 Pa CO2 pleurisy, syncope * ,  dizziness * Massive  pulmonary  embolus Often normal Prominent hilar  vessels, oligaemic  lung fields * Sinus tachycardia,  RBBB, S1Q3T3pattern \u2191 T(V1\u2013V4) Central cyanosis,  \u2191 JVP * ,  absence of signs in the  lung * , shock  (tachycardia,  hypotension) Acute severe  asthma History of asthma,  asthma medications,  wheeze * Hyperinflation only  (unless complicated  by pneumothorax) * \u2193 Pa O2\u2193 Pa CO2 ( \u2191 Pa CO2in extremis) Sinus tachycardia  (bradycardia in  extremis) Tachycardia, pulsus  paradoxus, cyanosis  (late), JVP  \u2192 * ,  \u2193 peak  flow, wheeze * Hyperinflation * ,  bullae, complicating  pneumothorax Normal, or signs  of right ventricular  strain Acute  exacerbation  of COPD Previous episodes * ,  smoker. If in type II  respiratory failure, may  be drowsy Cyanosis, hyperinflation * ,  signs of CO2 retention  (flapping tremor,  bounding pulses) * \u2193  or  \u2193\u2193 Pa O2\u2191 Pa CO2 in type II  failure  \u00b1 \u2191 H+,  \u2191 HCO3 in chronic  type II failure Tachycardia Pneumonia Prodromal illness * ,  fever * , rigors * , pleurisy * Pneumonic  consolidation * Fever, confusion, pleural  rub * , consolidation * ,  cyanosis (if severe) \u2193 Pa O2\u2193 Pa CO2 ( \u2191  in  extremis) Metabolic  acidosis Normal Pa O2 normal \u2193\u2193 Pa CO2,  \u2191 H+ mellitus or renal  disease, aspirin or  ethylene glycol overdose Fetor (ketones),  hyperventilation without  heart or lung signs * ,  dehydration * , air hunger Normal Pa O2 normal * \u2193\u2193 Pa CO2,  \u2193 H+* Psychogenic Previous episodes,  digital or perioral  dysaesthesia No cyanosis, no heart or  lung signs, carpopedal  spasm =  arterial blood gases; RBBB  =  right bundle branch block) ( p. 539 ) and respiratory disease ( Box 19.9 ). Pleurisy,   a sharp chest pain aggravated by deep breathing or  coughing, is a common feature of pulmonary infection  or infarction; it may also occur with malignancy. On  examination, rib movement may be restricted and a  pleural rub may be present. Malignant involvement of  the chest wall or ribs can cause gnawing, continuous  local pain in the chest wall. Central chest pain suggests  heart disease but also occurs with tumours affecting the  mediastinum, oesophageal disease ( p. 865 ) or disease   of the thoracic aorta ( p. 603 ). Massive pulmonary  embolus may cause ischaemic cardiac pain, as well as  severe breathlessness. Tracheitis produces raw upper  retrosternal pain, exacerbated by the accompanying  cough. Musculoskeletal chest wall pain is usually   exacerbated by movement and associated with local  tenderness. alarming symptom and patients nearly always seek  medical advice. Care should be taken to establish that  it is true haemoptysis and not haematemesis, or gum  or nose bleeding. Haemoptysis must always be  assumed to have a serious cause until this is excluded  ( Box 19.10 ). Many episodes of haemoptysis remain unexplained,  even after full investigation, and are likely to be due to  simple bronchial infection. A history of repeated small  haemoptysis, or blood-streaking of sputum, is highly  suggestive of bronchial carcinoma. Fever, night sweats  and weight loss suggest tuberculosis. Pneumococcal  pneumonia often causes \u2018rusty\u2019-coloured sputum but  can cause frank haemoptysis, as can all suppurative  pneumonic infections, including lung abscess (p. 687).  Bronchiectasis (p. 678) and intracavitary mycetoma   (p. 698) can cause catastrophic bronchial haemorrhage,  and in these patients there may be a history of previous  tuberculosis or pneumonia in early life. Finally, pulmo- nary thromboembolism is a common cause of haem- optysis and should always be considered. Physical examination may reveal additional clues.  Finger clubbing suggests bronchial carcinoma or bron- chiectasis; other signs of malignancy, such as cachexia,  hepatomegaly and lymphadenopathy, should also be  sought. Fever, pleural rub and signs of consolidation  occur in pneumonia or pulmonary infarction; a minority  of patients with pulmonary infarction also have unilat- eral leg swelling or pain suggestive of deep venous  thrombosis. Rashes, haematuria and digital infarcts   Differential diagnosis of chest pain culitis, which may be associated with haemoptysis. Cardiac\u2022 Myocardial ischaemia  (angina) \u2022 Pericarditis \u2022 Mitral valve prolapse  syndrome \u2022 Myocardial infarction \u2022 Myocarditis \u2022 Aortic aneurysm \u2022 Mallory\u2013Weiss syndrome \u2022 Oesophageal spasm Mediastinal\u2022 Tracheitis \u2022 Malignancy nursed upright (or on the side of the bleeding, if this is  known), given high-flow oxygen and resuscitated as  required. Bronchoscopy in the acute phase is difficult  and often merely shows blood throughout the bronchial  tree. If radiology shows an obvious central cause, then  rigid bronchoscopy under general anaesthesia may  allow intervention to stop bleeding; however, the   source often cannot be visualised. Intubation with a  divided endotracheal tube may allow protected ventila- tion of the unaffected lung to stabilise the patient. Bron- chial arteriography and embolisation ( Fig. 19.12 ), or  even emergency surgery, can be life-saving in the acute  situation. of investigations can be followed: \u2022 chest X-ray, which may provide evidence of a  benign), pneumonia, mycetoma or tuberculosis \u2022 Pneumonia \u2022 Pneumothorax \u2022 Malignancy \u2022 Tuberculosis \u2022 Connective tissue disorders \u2022 bronchoscopy after acute bleeding has settled,  \u2022 Epidemic myalgia  \u2022 Osteoarthritis \u2022 Rib fracture/injury \u2022 Costochondritis (Tietze\u2019s  (Bornholm disease) (not visible on the chest X-ray) and permit biopsy  and tissue diagnosis disc \u2022 Herpes zoster \u2022 Thoracic outlet syndrome seen on the chest X-ray (e.g. pulmonary  arteriovenous malformation or small or hidden  tumours). pain.  Causes of haemoptysis \u2022 Foreign body * \u2022 Bronchiectasis * \u2022 Acute bronchitis * * \u2022 Suppurative pneumonia \u2022 Parasites (e.g. hydatid  \u2022 Lung abscess \u2022 Trauma \u2022 Actinomycosis \u2022 Mycetoma disease, flukes) * \u2022 Goodpasture\u2019s syndrome  \u2022 Polyarteritis nodosa \u2022 Idiopathic pulmonary  ( p. 497 ) haemosiderosis failure * \u2022 Mitral stenosis \u2022 Aortic aneurysm \u2022 Haemophilia \u2022 Anticoagulants Bronchial artery angiography. An angiography catheter  has been passed via the femoral artery and aorta into an abnormally  dilated right bronchial artery (arrows). Contrast is seen flowing into the  lung. This patient had post-tuberculous bronchiectasis and presented with  massive haemoptysis. Bronchial artery embolisation was successfully  performed.  659 RespiRatoRy disease may be complicated by pneumothorax in around 20%   of cases and although only 3% require intercostal drain- age, this technique should only be contemplated in indi- viduals with an FEV1 of more than 35% predicted.  Haemorrhage into the lung or pleural space, air embo- lism and tumour seeding are rare but recognised  complications. PET scanning provides useful information about  The incidental finding of a pulmonary nodule (a rounded  opacity measuring up to 3 cm in diameter) is common,  particularly with the widespread use of thoracic   CT scanning ( Fig. 19.13 ). The differential diagnosis   is extensive ( Box 19.11 ), and whilst the majority are  benign, it is important to identify a potentially treatable  malignancy. A lesion may be confidently described as benign if it  appears unchanged over 2 years. If previous images are  available and this can be established, no further investi- gation may be necessary. Otherwise, the likelihood of  malignancy is assessed by considering the characteris- tics of the patient, including age, smoking history and  any history of prior malignancy, and the appearance of  the nodule in terms of its size, margin, density and loca- tion ( Box 19.12 ). Further investigation is required in the  majority of cases. Pulmonary nodules are invariably beyond the vision  of the bronchoscope and, with the notable exception   of pulmonary infection (e.g. tuberculosis), bronchos- copy is usually unrewarding as the yield from blind  washings is low. Endoscopic bronchoscopic ultrasound  may overcome this but, for the time being, tissue is   most commonly obtained using percutaneous needle  nodules of at least 1 cm in diameter, in which the pres- ence of high metabolic activity is strongly suggestive of  malignancy, while an inactive \u2018cold\u2019 nodule is consistent  with benign disease. False-positive results may occur  with some infectious or inflammatory nodules, and  false-negative results with neuro-endocrine tumours  and bronchiolo-alveolar cell carcinomas. Detection of  neuro-endocrine tumours may be improved by the use  of 68Ga-Dotatoc in place of FDG. Where tissue biopsy is contraindicated and the lesion  is too small to be confidently assessed by PET, interval  thoracic CT scanning may be considered. The period  between scans is based upon the average tumour dou- bling time ( Box 19.13 ). Changes may be difficult to assess  visually and specially adapted computer programs  allow more detailed topographical assessment. However,  the risks of radiation exposure inherent in this approach,  and the fact that further nodules are likely to be detected,  need to be considered. In some circumstances, if the  nodule is highly likely to be malignant and the patient  is fit for surgery, the best option may be to proceed to  surgical resection.  Clinical and radiographic features  distinguishing benign from malignant nodules Risk of malignancy Patient characteristicsAge Increases with age and is uncommon   <  age of 40 Smoking history Increases in proportion to duration and  amount smoked Other Increased by history of lung cancer in  first-degree relative, and by exposure to  asbestos, silica, uranium and radon Fig. 19.13 Thoracic CT scan showing a solitary pulmonary  nodule identified in the right upper lobe (arrow). Nearly all  >  3 cm but fewer than 1%  <  4 mm are malignant Margin Usually smooth in benign lesions Spiculated suggests malignancy  Causes of pulmonary nodules \u2022 Single metastasis \u2022 Localised pneumonia \u2022 Lung abscess \u2022 Tuberculoma \u2022 Pulmonary infarct Laminated or central deposition of  calcification suggests granuloma \u2018Popcorn\u2019 pattern is suggestive of  hamartoma Fat may suggest hamartoma or lipoid  granuloma Location 70% of lung cancers occur in upper   lobes Benign lesions are equally distributed  throughout upper and lower lobes \u2022 Pulmonary haematoma \u2022 Wegener\u2019s granuloma \u2022 \u2018Pseudotumour\u2019 \u2013 fluid  collection in a fissure \u2022 Aspergilloma (usually  surrounded by air \u2018halo\u2019)  Linear or sheet-like lung opacities are unlikely to represent neoplasms  and do not require follow-up. Some nodular opacities may be sufficiently  typical of scarring that follow-up is not warranted. Adapted from Fleischer Society Statement. Radiology 2005; 237:395\u2013400. \u2022 Lymphoma \u2022 Arteriovenous malformation \u2022 Hydatid cyst ( p. 380 ) \u2022 Bronchogenic cyst \u2022 Rheumatoid nodule \u2022 Pulmonary sequestration Presenting problems in respiratory disease  Causes of pleural effusion 19.13  Recommendations for follow-up of  incidental nodules smaller than 8 mm1 (average of  length and width) No or minimal  history of smoking/ other risk factors Smoker/other   risk factors \u2022 Cardiac failure * \u2022 Subdiaphragmatic  disorders (subphrenic  abscess, pancreatitis etc.) \u2022 Tuberculosis \u2022 Pulmonary infarction * \u2022 Malignant disease \u2264  4 No follow-up  needed2Follow-up CT at  12 mths; if  unchanged, no  further follow-up * \u2022 Acute rheumatic fever \u2022 Meigs\u2019 syndrome (ovarian  (nephrotic syndrome, liver  failure, malnutrition) 4\u20136 Follow-up at  12 mths; if  unchanged, no  further follow-up Initial follow-up CT  at 6\u201312 mths, then  at 18\u201324 mths if  no change \u2022 Connective tissue diseases * (particularly systemic lupus  erythematosus (SLE) and  rheumatoid arthritis) tumour plus pleural  effusion) \u2022 Myxoedema * \u2022 Uraemia * \u2022 Asbestos-related benign  6\u20138 Initial follow-up CT  at 6\u201312 mths, then  at 18\u201324 mths if  no change Initial follow-up CT  at 3\u20136 mths, then  at 9\u201312 mths if no  change \u2022 Post-myocardial infarction  pleural effusion syndrome As for low-risk  patient  8 Follow-up CT at  around 3, 9 and  24 mths, dynamic  contrast-enhanced  CT, PET and/or  biopsy suspected malignant disease.2Very low risk of malignancy ( <  1%). Non-solid (ground glass) or partly solid  nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent adenocarcinoma. Adapted from Radiology 2005; 237:395\u2013400. but casts a radiological shadow only where the X-ray  beam passes tangentially across the fluid against the  lateral chest wall. Around 200 mL of fluid is required   in order for it to be detectable on a PA chest X-ray. Previ- ous scarring or adhesions in the pleural space can cause  localised effusions. Pleural fluid localised below the  lower lobe (\u2018subpulmonary effusion\u2019) simulates an ele- vated hemidiaphragm. Pleural fluid localised within an  oblique fissure may produce a rounded opacity that may  be mistaken for a tumour. Ultrasound is more accurate than plain chest X-ray  for determining the presence of fluid. A clear hypo- echoic space is consistent with a transudate and the pres- ence of moving floating densities suggests an exudate.  The presence of septation suggests an evolving empyema  or resolving haemothorax. CT scanning is indicated  where malignant disease is suspected. The accumulation of serous fluid within the pleural  space is termed pleural effusion. The accumulation of  frank pus is termed empyema (p. 662), that of blood is  haemothorax, and that of chyle is a chylothorax. In  general, pleural fluid accumulates as a result of either  increased hydrostatic pressure or decreased osmotic  pressure (\u2018transudative\u2019 effusion, as seen in cardiac, liver  or renal failure), or from increased microvascular pres- sure due to disease of the pleura or injury in the adjacent  lung (\u2018exudative\u2019 effusion). The causes of the majority of  pleural effusions ( Boxes 19.14  and  19.15 ) are identified  by a thorough history, examination and relevant  investigations. of pleurisy (a pleural rub) often precede the develop- ment of an effusion, especially in patients with under- lying pneumonia, pulmonary infarction or connective  tissue disease. However, when breathlessness is the   only symptom, depending on the size and rate of accu- mulation, the onset may be insidious. The physical signs  are detailed on page 645. chest film is of a curved shadow at the lung base, blunt- ing the costophrenic angle and ascending towards the  axilla (p. 645). Fluid appears to track up the lateral chest  not be necessary to sample fluid unless atypical features  are present; appropriate treatment should be adminis- tered and the effusion re-evaluated. However, in most  other circumstances, diagnostic sampling is required.  Simple aspiration provides information on the colour  and texture of fluid and these alone may immediately  suggest an empyema or chylothorax. The presence of  blood is consistent with pulmonary infarction or malig- nancy, but may result from a traumatic tap. Biochemical  analysis allows classification into transudate and exu- dates ( Box 19.16 ) and Gram stain may suggest para- pneumonic effusion. The predominant cell type provides  useful information and cytological examination is essen- tial. A low pH suggests infection but may also be   seen in rheumatoid arthritis, ruptured oesophagus or  advanced malignancy. Ultrasound- or CT-guided pleural biopsy provides  tissue for pathological and microbiological analysis.  Where necessary, video-assisted thoracoscopy allows  visualisaton of the pleura and direct guidance of a  biopsy.  Pleural effusion: main causes and features Appearance of fluid Type of fluid Predominant cells in fluid Other diagnostic features Serous, usually  amber-coloured Exudate Lymphocytes (occasionally  polymorphs) Positive tuberculin test Isolation of  M. tuberculosis  from  pleural fluid (20%) Positive pleural biopsy (80%) Raised adenosine deaminase Positive pleural biopsy (40%) Evidence of malignancy elsewhere Malignant disease Serous, often  blood-stained Exudate Serosal cells and  lymphocytes Often clumps of   malignant cells Cardiac failure Serous, straw-coloured Transudate Few serosal cells Other signs of cardiac failure Response to diuretics Pulmonary  infarction Serous or blood-stained Exudate (rarely  transudate) Red blood cells Eosinophils Evidence of pulmonary infarction Obvious source of embolism Factors predisposing to venous  thrombosis Rheumatoid  disease Serous Turbid if chronic Exudate Lymphocytes (occasionally  polymorphs) Rheumatoid arthritis: rheumatoid  factor and anti-CCP antibodies Cholesterol in chronic effusion; very  low glucose in pleural fluid SLE Serous Exudate Lymphocytes and serosal  cells Other signs of SLE Antinuclear factor or anti-DNA  positive Acute pancreatitis Serous or blood-stained Exudate No cells predominate Higher amylase in pleural fluid than  in serum Obstruction of  thoracic duct Milky Chyle None Chylomicrons =  anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide; SLE  =  systemic lupus erythematosus)  Light\u2019s criteria for distinguishing  pleural transudate from exudate \u2022 Pleural fluid protein : serum protein ratio  >  0.5 \u2022 Pleural fluid LDH : serum LDH ratio  >  0.6 \u2022 Pleural fluid LDH  >  two-thirds of the upper limit of normal  serum LDH =  lactate dehydrogenase) pleural space or only part of it (\u2018loculated\u2019 or \u2018encysted\u2019  empyema) and is usually unilateral. It is always second- ary to infection in a neighbouring structure, usually the  lung, most commonly due to the bacterial pneumonias  and tuberculosis. Over 40% of patients with community- acquired pneumonia develop an associated pleural   effusion (\u2018para-pneumonic\u2019 effusion) and about 15% of  these become secondarily infected. Other causes are  infection of a haemothorax following trauma or surgery,  oesophageal rupture, and rupture of a subphrenic  abscess through the diaphragm. Both pleural surfaces are covered with a thick,  shaggy, inflammatory exudate. The pus in the pleural  space is often under considerable pressure, and if the  condition is not adequately treated, pus may rupture  into a bronchus, causing a bronchopleural fistula and  pyopneumothorax, or track through the chest wall with  the formation of a subcutaneous abscess or sinus,  so-called empyema necessitans. breathlessness but removing more than 1.5 L at a time  is associated with a small risk of re-expansion pulmo- nary oedema. An effusion should never be drained to  dryness before establishing a diagnosis, as biopsy may  be precluded until further fluid accumulates. Treatment  of the underlying cause \u2013 for example, heart failure,  pneumonia, pulmonary embolism or subphrenic abscess  \u2013 will often be followed by resolution of the effusion.  The management of pleural effusion in pneumonia,  tuberculosis and malignancy is dealt with below. may be as thin as serous fluid or so thick that it is impos- sible to aspirate, even through a wide-bore needle.  Microscopically, neutrophil leucocytes are present in  monary infection if there is severe pleuritic chest pain or  persisting or recurrent pyrexia, despite appropriate anti- biotic treatment. In other cases, the primary infection  may be so mild that it passes unrecognised and the first  definite clinical features are due to the empyema itself.  Once an empyema has developed, systemic features are  prominent ( Box 19.17 ).  Clinical features of empyema \u2022 Rigors, sweating, malaise and weight loss \u2022 Polymorphonuclear leucocytosis, high CRP because of underlying lung disease; copious purulent sputum  if empyema ruptures into a bronchus (bronchopleural fistula) \u2022 Clinical signs of pleural effusion Fig. 19.15 Pleural ultrasound showing septation. Chest X-ray showing a \u2018D\u2019-shaped shadow in the left  mid-zone, consistent with an empyema. In this case, an intercostal  chest drain has been inserted but the loculated collection of pus remains.  is secured at an early stage by removal of all the pus  from the pleural space. When the pus is sufficiently   thin, this is most easily achieved by the insertion of a  wide-bore intercostal tube into the most dependent part  of the empyema space. If the initial aspirate reveals  turbid fluid or frank pus, or if loculations are seen on  ultrasound, the tube should be put on suction ( \u2212 5 to  \u2212 10 cm H2O) and flushed regularly with 20 mL normal  saline. If the organism causing the empyema can be  identified, the appropriate antibiotic should be given   for 2\u20134 weeks. Empirical antibiotic treatment (e.g. intra- venous co-amoxiclav or cefuroxime with metronidazole)  should be used if the organism is unknown. Intrapleural  fibrinolytic therapy is of no benefit. An empyema can often be aborted if these measures  are started early, but if the intercostal tube is not provid- ing adequate drainage \u2013 for example, when the pus is  thick or loculated, surgical intervention is required to  clear the empyema cavity of pus and break down any  adhesions. Surgical \u2018decortication\u2019 of the lung may also  be required if gross thickening of the visceral pleura is  preventing re-expansion of the lung. Surgery is also nec- essary if a bronchopleural fistula develops. Despite the widespread availability of antibiotics that  are effective against pneumonia, empyema remains a  significant cause of morbidity and mortality. gas exchange fails to maintain normal arterial oxygen  and carbon dioxide levels. Its classification into types I  and II is defined by the absence or presence of hyper- capnia (raised  Pa CO2). those of pleural effusion, although pleural adhesions  may confine the empyema to form a \u2018D\u2019-shaped shadow  against the inside of the chest wall ( Fig. 19.14 ). When air  is present as well as pus (pyopneumothorax), a horizon- tal \u2018fluid level\u2019 marks the air/liquid interface. Ultrasound  shows the position of the fluid, the extent of pleural  thickening and whether fluid is in a single collection or  multiloculated, containing fibrin and debris ( Fig. 19.15 ).  CT provides information on the pleura, underlying lung  parenchyma and patency of the major bronchi. Ultrasound or CT is used to identify the optimal site  for aspiration, which is best performed using a wide- bore needle. If the fluid is thick and turbid pus, empyema  is confirmed. Other features suggesting empyema are   a fluid glucose of less than 3.3 mmol/L (60 mg/dL),  lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) of more than 1000 U/L,   or a fluid pH of less than 7.0 (H+ over 100 nmol/L).  However, pH measurement should be avoided if pus is  thick, as it damages blood gas machines. The pus is  frequently sterile on culture if antibiotics have already  been given. The distinction between tuberculous and  non-tuberculous disease can be difficult and often  requires pleural biopsy, histology and culture. in asthma or pneumonia), perfusion of that region  results in hypoxic and CO2-laden blood entering the pul- monary veins. Increased ventilation of neighbouring  regions of normal lung can increase CO2 excretion, cor- recting arterial CO2 to normal, but cannot augment  oxygen uptake because the haemoglobin flowing  through these regions is already fully saturated. Admix- ture of blood from the underventilated and normal  regions thus results in hypoxia with normocapnia,  and the empyema space is obliterated, allowing apposi- tion of the visceral and parietal pleural layers. This    How to interpret blood gas abnormalities in respiratory failure Type II Hypoxia ( Pa O2<  8.0 kPa (60 mmHg)) Normal or low  PaC O2 ( <  6.6 kPa (50 mmHg)) Hypoxia ( Pa O2<  8.0 kPa (60 mmHg)) Raised  Pa CO2 ( >  6.6 kPa (50 mmHg)) Acute Chronic Acute Chronic \u2192 \u2191 \u2192  or  \u2191 Bicarbonate \u2192 \u2192 \u2192 \u2191 COPD Lung fibrosis Lymphangitis  carcinomatosa Right-to-left shunts COPD Sleep apnoea Kyphoscoliosis Myopathies/muscular dystrophy Ankylosing spondylitis Causes Acute asthma Pulmonary oedema Pneumonia Lobar collapse Pneumothorax Pulmonary embolus ARDS Acute severe asthma Acute exacerbation of COPD Upper airway obstruction Acute neuropathies/paralysis Narcotic drugs Primary alveolar hypoventilation Flail chest injury =  acute respiratory distress syndrome; COPD  =  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) causing this include all those that impair ventilation  locally with sparing of other regions ( Box 19.18 ). Arterial hypoxia with hypercapnia (type II respira- tory failure) is seen in conditions that cause generalised,  severe ventilation\u2013perfusion mismatch, leaving insuffi- cient normal lung to correct  Pa CO2, or a disease that  reduces total ventilation. The latter includes not just   diseases of the lung but also disorders affecting any  part of the neuromuscular mechanism of ventilation   (see  Box 19.18 ). with the trachea deviated away from a silent and reso- nant hemithorax are likely to have tension pneumotho- rax, and air should be aspirated from the pleural space  and a chest drain inserted as soon as possible. Patients  with generalised wheeze, scanty breath sounds bilater- ally or a history of asthma or COPD should be treated  with nebulised salbutamol 2.5 mg with oxygen, repeated  until bronchospasm is relieved. Failure to respond to  initial treatment, declining conscious level and worsen- ing respiratory acidosis (H+>  50 nmol/L (pH  <  7.3),  Pa CO2>  6.6 kPa (50 mmHg)) on blood gases are all indi- cations that supported ventilation is required ( p. 193 ). A small percentage of patients with severe chronic  COPD and type II respiratory failure develop abnormal  tolerance to raised  Pa CO2 and may become dependent  on hypoxic drive to breathe. In these patients only, lower  concentrations of oxygen (24\u201328% by Venturi mask)  should be used to avoid precipitating worsening respira- tory depression (see below). In all cases, regular moni- toring of arterial blood gases is important to assess  progress. Patients with acute type II respiratory failure who  have reduced drive or conscious level may be suffering  from sedative poisoning, CO2 narcosis or a primary  failure of neurological drive (e.g. following intracerebral  haemorrhage or head injury). History from a witness  may be invaluable, and reversal of specific drugs with  (for example) opiate antagonists is occasionally success- ful, but should not delay intubation and supported  mechanical ventilation in appropriate cases. respiratory failurePrompt diagnosis and management of the underlying  cause is crucial. In type I respiratory failure, high con- centrations of oxygen (40\u201360% by mask) will usually  relieve hypoxia by increasing the alveolar  P O2 in poorly  ventilated lung units. Occasionally, however (e.g. severe  pneumonia affecting several lobes), mechanical ventila- tion may be needed to relieve hypoxia. Patients who  need high concentrations of oxygen for more than a few  hours should receive humidified oxygen. Acute type II respiratory failure is an emergency  requiring immediate intervention. It is useful to distin- guish between patients with high ventilatory drive  (rapid respiratory rate and accessory muscle recruit- ment) who cannot move sufficient air, and those with  reduced or inadequate respiratory effort. In the former,  particularly if inspiratory stridor is present, acute upper  airway obstruction from foreign body inhalation or  laryngeal obstruction (angioedema, carcinoma or vocal  cord paralysis) must be considered, as the Heimlich  man\u0153uvre (p. 728), immediate intubation or emergency  tracheostomy may be life-saving. More commonly, the problem is in the lungs, with  severe generalised bronchial obstruction from COPD   or asthma, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)  arising from a variety of insults ( p. 191 ), or occasionally  tension pneumothorax (p. 728). In all such cases, high- concentration (e.g. 60%) oxygen should be adminis- tered, pending a rapid examination of the respiratory  system and measurement of arterial blood gases. Patients  type II respiratory failureThe most common cause of chronic type II respiratory  failure is severe COPD. Although  Pa CO2 may be persis- tently raised, there is no persisting acidaemia because   the kidneys retain bicarbonate, correcting arterial pH to  normal. This \u2018compensated\u2019 pattern, which may also  occur in chronic neuromuscular disease or kyphoscolio- sis, is maintained until there is a further acute illness (see  Box 19.18 ), such as an exacerbation of COPD which pre- cipitates an episode of \u2018acute on chronic\u2019 respiratory  failure, with acidaemia and initial respiratory distress  patients have lost their chemo-sensitivity to elevated  Pa CO2, and so they may paradoxically depend on  hypoxia for respiratory drive, and are at risk of respira- tory depression if given high concentrations of oxygen  \u2013 for example, during ambulance transfers or in emer- gency departments. Moreover, in contrast to acute severe  asthma, some patients with \u2018acute on chronic\u2019 type II  respiratory failure due to COPD may not be distressed,  despite being critically ill with severe hypoxaemia,  hypercapnia and acidaemia. While the physical signs of  CO2 retention (confusion, flapping tremor, bounding  pulses and so on) can be helpful if present, they may not  be, so arterial blood gases are mandatory in the assess- ment of initial severity and response to treatment. Immediate treatment is shown in  Box 19.19 . Patients  who are conscious and have adequate respiratory drive  may benefit from non-invasive ventilation (NIV), which  has been shown to reduce the need for intubation and  shorten hospital stay. Patients who are drowsy and have  low respiratory drive require an urgent decision regard- ing intubation and ventilation, as this is likely to be the  only effective treatment, even though weaning off the  ventilator may be difficult in severe disease. The deci- sion is challenging, and important factors to consider  include patient and family wishes, presence of a poten- tially remediable precipitating condition, prior func- tional capacity and quality of life. The various types of  non-invasive (via a face or nasal mask) or invasive   (via an endotracheal tube) ventilation are detailed on  pages 193\u2013196. Respiratory stimulant drugs, such as doxapram, tend  to cause unacceptable distress due to increased dys- pnoea, and have been largely superseded by intubation  and mechanical ventilation in patients with CO2 narco- sis, as they provide only minor and transient improve- ments in arterial blood gases. II respiratory failure are to achieve a safe  Pa O2 ( >  7.0 kPa  (52 mmHg)) without increasing  Pa CO2 and acidosis,  while identifying and treating the precipitating condi- tion. In these patients, it is not necessary to achieve a  normal  Pa O2; even a small increase will often have  a greatly beneficial effect on tissue oxygen delivery,  since their  Pa O2 values are often on the steep part of  the oxygen saturation curve ( p. 184 ). The risks of wors- ening hypercapnia and coma must be balanced against  those of severe hypoxaemia, which include potentially  fatal arrhythmias or severe cerebral complications.   Assessment and management of \u2018acute on  chronic\u2019 type II respiratory failure \u2022 Conscious level (response to commands, ability to cough) \u2022 CO2 retention (warm periphery, bounding pulses, flapping  tremor) \u2022 Airways obstruction (wheeze, prolonged expiration,  hyperinflation, intercostal indrawing, pursed lips) \u2022 Cor pulmonale (peripheral oedema, raised JVP,  hepatomegaly, ascites) respiratory failureNIV is of great value in the long-term treatment of res- piratory failure due to spinal deformity, neuromuscular  disease and central alveolar hypoventilation. Some  patients with advanced lung disease, e.g. cystic fibrosis,  also benefit from NIV for respiratory failure. In these  conditions, the onset of type II respiratory failure can   be very gradual. Morning headache (due to elevated  Pa CO2) and fatigue are common symptoms but, in many  cases, the diagnosis is only revealed by sleep studies or  morning blood gas analysis. In the initial stages, ventila- tion is insufficient for metabolic needs only during sleep,  when there is a physiological decline in ventilatory  drive. Over time, however, CO2 retention becomes  chronic, with renal compensation of acidosis. Treatment  by home-based NIV overnight is often sufficient to  restore the daytime  P CO2 to normal, and to relieve  fatigue and headache. In advanced disease (e.g. muscu- lar dystrophies or cystic fibrosis), daytime NIV may also  be required. \u2022 Signs of precipitating cause (see  Box 19.17 ) acidaemia, bicarbonate) \u2022 Chest X-ray carefully selected patients with advanced lung disease  unresponsive  to  medical  treatment  ( Box  19.20 ).   Indications for lung transplantation \u2022 Treatment of specific precipitating cause \u2022 Frequent physiotherapy  \u00b1  pharyngeal suction \u2022 Nebulised bronchodilators \u2022 Controlled oxygen therapy \u2022 Langerhans cell  histiocytosis (p. 715) \u2022 Lymphangioleiomyomatosis  Start with 24% Venturi mask Aim for a  Pa O2>  7 kPa (52 mmHg) (a  Pa O2<  5  (37 mmHg) is dangerous) \u2022 Emphysema \u2022 Pulmonary fibrosis \u2022 Obliterative bronchiolitis (p. 715) \u2022 Antibiotics if evidence of infection \u2022 Diuretics if evidence of fluid overload hypertension \u2022 Veno-occlusive disease \u2022 Eisenmenger\u2019s syndrome  Pa CO2 continues to rise or a safe  Pa O2 cannot be achieved  \u2022 Thromboembolic pulmonary  ( p. 631 ) without severe hypercapnia and acidaemia, mechanical  ventilatory support may be required hypertension RespiRatoRy disease that is often reversible, either spontaneously or with  treatment. latter part of the last century, first in the developed and  then in the developing world ( Fig. 19.16 ). Current esti- mates suggest that asthma affects 300 million people  worldwide, with a predicted additional 100 million  people affected by 2025. The socio-economic impact is  enormous, as poor control leads to days lost from school  or work, unscheduled health-care visits and hospital  admissions. Although the development and course of the disease,  and the response to treatment, are influenced by genetic  determinants, the rapid rise in prevalence implies that  environmental factors are critically important in the  development and expression of the disease. To date,  studies have explored the potential role of indoor and  outdoor allergens, microbial exposure, diet, vitamins,  breastfeeding, tobacco smoke, air pollution and obesity  but no clear consensus has emerged. Single-lung transplantation may be used for selected  patients with advanced emphysema or lung fibrosis.  This is contraindicated in patients with chronic bilateral  pulmonary infection, such as cystic fibrosis and bron- chiectasis, because the transplanted lung is vulnerable to  cross-infection in the context of post-transplant immuno- suppression and for these individuals bilateral lung  transplantation is the standard procedure. Combined  heart\u2013lung transplantation is still occasionally needed  for patients with advanced congenital heart disease such  as Eisenmenger\u2019s syndrome, and is preferred by some  surgeons for the treatment of primary pulmonary hyper- tension unresponsive to medical therapy. The prognosis following lung transplantation is  improving steadily with modern immunosuppressive  drugs: over 50% 10-year survival in some UK centres.  However, chronic rejection resulting in obliterative  bronchiolitis continues to afflict some recipients. Cortico- steroids are used to manage acute rejection, but drugs  that inhibit cell-mediated immunity specifically, such as  ciclosporin, mycophenolate and tacrolimus ( p. 94 ), are  used to prevent chronic rejection. Azithromycin, statins  and total lymphoid irradiation are employed to treat  obliterative bronchiolitis, but late organ failure remains  a significant problem. The major factor limiting the availability of lung  transplantation is the shortage of donor lungs. To  improve organ availability, techniques to recondition  the lungs in vitro after removal from the donor are being  developed. airways to narrow excessively in response to triggers  that have little or no effect in normal individuals \u2013 is inte- gral to the diagnosis of asthma and appears to be related,  although not exclusively, to airway inflammation ( Fig. 19.17 ). Other factors likely to be important in the behav- iour of airway smooth muscle include the degree of  airway narrowing and neurogenic mechanisms. The relationship between atopy (the propensity to  produce IgE) and asthma is well established, and in  many individuals there is a clear relationship between  sensitisation and allergen exposure, as demonstrated by  skin prick reactivity or elevated serum specific IgE.  Common examples of allergens include house dust  mites, pets such as cats and dogs, pests such as cock- roaches, and fungi. Inhalation of an allergen into the  airway is followed by an early and late-phase broncho- constrictor response ( Fig. 19.18 ). Allergic mechanisms   Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the  airways, in which many cells and cellular elements play  a role. The chronic inflammation is associated with  airway hyper-responsiveness that leads to recurrent epi- sodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness and  coughing, particularly at night and in the early morning.  These episodes are usually associated with widespread  10.1 7.6\u201310.0 5.1\u20137.5 2.5\u20135.0 0\u20132.5 No standardised data available World map showing the prevalence of clinical asthma (proportion of population (%)). From WHO \u2013 see p. 732; data drawn from  the European Community Respiratory Health Study (ECRHS) and the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC). 666 Obstructive pulmonary diseases Severe asthma Moderate asthma Mild asthma Normal 0 10 20 Examination of the inflammatory cell profile in induced  sputum samples demonstrates that, although asthma is  predominantly characterised by airway eosinophilia,  neutrophilic inflammation predominates in some  patients, while, in others, scant inflammation is observed:  so-called \u2018pauci-granulocytic\u2019 asthma. With increasing severity and chronicity of the disease,  remodelling of the airway may occur, leading to fibrosis  of the airway wall, fixed narrowing of the airway and a  reduced response to bronchodilator medication. Reduction in FEV1 (%) 40 Increasing concentration of histamine Airway hyper-reactivity in asthma. This is demonstrated  by bronchial challenge tests with sequentially increasing concentrations of  either histamine, methacholine or mannitol. The reactivity of the airways is  expressed as the concentration or dose of either chemical required to  produce a specific decrease (usually 20%) in the FEV1 (PC20 or PD20respectively).  500 400 Early reaction (type I) Pre-formed mediator release Late reaction (type Il) Inflammatory cell recruitment and activation 300 200 100 Challenge, e.g. allergen ing, chest tightness, breathlessness and cough. Asthma  is commonly mistaken for a cold or chest infection which  is taking time to resolve (e.g. longer than 10 days). Clas- sical precipitants include exercise, particularly in cold  weather, exposure to airborne allergens or pollutants,  and viral upper respiratory tract infections. Wheeze  apart, there is often very little to find on examination.  An inspection for nasal polyps and eczema should be  performed. Rarely, a vasculitic rash may suggest Churg\u2013 Strauss syndrome ( p. 1118 ). Patients with mild intermittent asthma are usually  asymptomatic between exacerbations. Individuals with  persistent asthma report ongoing breathlessness and  wheeze, but these are variable, with symptoms fluctuat- ing over the course of one day, or from day to day or  month to month. Asthma characteristically displays a diurnal pattern,  with symptoms and lung function being worse in the  early morning. Particularly when poorly controlled,  symptoms such as cough and wheeze disturb sleep and  have led to the term \u2018nocturnal asthma\u2019. Cough may be  the dominant symptom in some patients, and the lack of  wheeze or breathlessness may lead to a delay in reach- ing the diagnosis of so-called \u2018cough-variant asthma\u2019. Some patients with asthma have a similar inflamma- 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 24 Time (hours) Changes in peak flow following allergen challenge.A similar biphasic response is observed following a variety of different  challenges. Occasionally, an isolated late response is seen with no early  reaction.  asthma (p. 715). In cases of aspirin-sensitive asthma, the ingestion of  salicylates results in inhibition of the cyclo-oxygenase  enzymes, preferentially shunting the metabolism of ara- chidonic acid through the lipoxygenase pathway with  resultant production of the asthmogenic cysteinyl leuko- trienes. In exercise-induced asthma, hyperventilation  results in water loss from the pericellular lining fluid of  the respiratory mucosa, which, in turn, triggers media- tor release. Heat loss from the respiratory mucosa may  also be important. In persistent asthma, a chronic and complex inflam- numerous inflammatory cells, the transformation and  participation of airway structural cells, and the secretion  tory response in the upper airway. Careful enquiry  should be made as to a history of sinusitis, sinus   headache, a blocked or runny nose, and loss of sense   of smell. Although the aetiology of asthma is often elusive, an  attempt should be made to identify any agents that may  contribute to the appearance or aggravation of the con- dition. Particular enquiry should be made about poten- tial allergens, such as exposure to a pet cat, guinea pig,  rabbit or horse, pest infestation, exposure to moulds fol- lowing water damage to a home or building, and any  potential occupational agents. In some circumstances, the appearance of asthma is  triggered by medications. Beta-blockers, even when  administered topically as eye drops, may induce  broncho spasm, as may aspirin and other non-steroidal   anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The classical aspirin- sensitive patient is female and presents in middle age  with asthma, rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps. Aspirin- sensitive patients may also report symptoms following  alcohol (in particular, white wine) and foods containing  salicylates. Other medications implicated include the  oral contraceptive pill, cholinergic agents and prosta- glandin F2 \u03b1 . Betel nuts contain arecoline, which is  structurally similar to methacholine and can aggravate  asthma. An important minority of patients develop a  Peak flow (L/min) be more common in women. Allergic triggers are less  important and airway neutrophilia predominates. Steroids commenced 300 200 100 pm pm am am pm pm am am pm am am 5 1 2 3 4 Time (days) based on a characteristic history. Supportive evidence is  provided by the demonstration of variable airflow  obstruction, preferably by using spirometry ( Box 19.21 )  to measure FEV1 and VC. This identifies the obstructive  defect, defines its severity, and provides a baseline for  bronchodilator reversibility ( Fig. 19.19 ). If spirometry is  not available, a peak flow meter may be used. Patients  should be instructed to record peak flow readings after  rising in the morning and before retiring in the evening.  A diurnal variation in PEF of more than 20% (the lowest  values typically being recorded in the morning) is con- sidered diagnostic, and the magnitude of variability pro- vides some indication of disease severity ( Fig. 19.20 ). A  trial of corticosteroids (e.g. 30 mg daily for 2 weeks) may  be useful in establishing the diagnosis, by demonstrat- ing an improvement in either FEV1 or PEF. It is not uncommon for patients whose symptoms   are suggestive of asthma to have normal lung function.  In these circumstances, the demonstration of AHR by  challenge tests may be useful to confirm the diagnosis  Serial recordings of peak expiratory flow (PEF) in  a patient with asthma. Note the sharp overnight fall (morning dip)  and subsequent rise during the day. Following the introduction of  corticosteroids, there is an improvement in PEF rate and loss of morning  dipping.   How to make a diagnosis of asthma plus either/or : \u2022 FEV1\u2265  15% *  (and 200 mL) increase following administration  of a bronchodilator/trial of corticosteroids \u2022  >  20% diurnal variation on  \u2265  3 days in a week for 2 weeks  on PEF diary Fig. 19.17 ). AHR is sensitive but non-specific: it has  a high negative predictive value but positive results may  be seen in other conditions, such as COPD, bronchiecta- sis and cystic fibrosis. When symptoms are predomi- nantly related to exercise, an exercise challenge may be  followed by a drop in lung function ( Fig. 19.21 ).  15% decrease after 6 mins of exercise 3.5 expired (L) 2.5 bronchodilator drug administered 2.5 FEV1 Exercise drug administered 1 FEV1 30 0 25 20 15 10 5 8 6 0 5 4 3 2 1 Time (seconds) Exercise-induced asthma. Serial recordings of FEV1 in a  patient with bronchial asthma before and after 6 minutes of strenuous  exercise. Note initial rise on completion of exercise, followed by sudden fall  and gradual recovery. Adequate warm-up exercise or pre-treatment with a  \u03b22-adrenoceptor agonist, nedocromil sodium or a leukotriene antagonist  can protect against exercise-induced symptoms.  668 Reversibility test. Forced expiratory man\u0153uvres before and  20 minutes after inhalation of a  \u03b22-adrenoceptor agonist. Note the increase  in FEV1 from 1.0 to 2.5 L.  Obstructive pulmonary diseases Measurement of allergic status : the presence of atopy  may be demonstrated by skin prick tests. Similar  information may be provided by the measurement  of total and allergen-specific IgE. A full blood  picture may show the peripheral blood eosinophilia. relevant antigens, such as a pet, may effect improve- ment. House dust mite exposure may be minimised by  replacing carpets with floorboards and using mite- impermeable bedding. So far, improvements in asthma  control following such measures have been difficult to  demonstrate. Many patients are sensitised to several  ubiquitous aeroallergens, making avoidance strategies  largely impractical. Measures to reduce fungal exposure  and eliminate cockroaches may be applicable in specific  circumstances, and medications known to precipitate or  aggravate asthma should be avoided. Smoking cessation  ( p. 100 ) is particularly important, as smoking not only  encourages sensitisation, but also induces a relative cor- ticosteroid resistance in the airway. \u2022  Radiological examination : chest X-ray appearances are  often normal or show hyperinflation of lung fields.  Lobar collapse may be seen if mucus occludes a  large bronchus and, if accompanied by the presence  of flitting infiltrates, may suggest that asthma has  been complicated by allergic bronchopulmonary  aspergillosis (p. 697). An HRCT scan may be useful  to detect bronchiectasis. \u2022  Assessment of eosinophilic airway inflammation : an  induced sputum differential eosinophil count of  greater than 2% or exhaled breath nitric oxide  concentration (FENO) may support the diagnosis but  is non-specific. of asthma  ( Fig. 19.22 )Step 1: Occasional use of inhaled short-acting  \u03b22-adrenoreceptor agonist bronchodilatorsFor patients with mild intermittent asthma (symptoms  less than once a week for 3 months and fewer than two  nocturnal episodes per month), it is usually sufficient to  prescribe an inhaled short-acting  \u03b22-agonist, such as  salbutamol or terbutaline, to be used as required.  However, many patients (and their physicians) under- estimate the severity of asthma. A history of a severe  exacerbation should lead to a step-up in treatment. A variety of different inhaled devices are available  and the choice of device should be guided by patient  preference and competence in its use. The metered-dose  inhaler remains the most widely prescribed ( Fig. 19.23 ). corticosteroids (ICS), such as beclometasone, budeso- nide (BUD), fluticasone or ciclesonide) should be started  in addition to inhaled  \u03b22-agonists taken on an as-required  basis for any patient who: \u2022 has experienced an exacerbation of asthma in the  last 2 years ( Box 19.23 ) with appropriate treatment in the majority of patients.  The goal of treatment should be to obtain and maintain  complete control ( Box 19.22 ), but aims may be modified  according to the circumstances and the patient. Unfor- tunately, surveys consistently demonstrate that the  majority of individuals with asthma report suboptimal  control, perhaps reflecting the poor expectations of  patients and their clinicians. Whenever possible, patients should be encouraged to  take responsibility for managing their own disease. A  full explanation of the nature of the condition, the   relationship between symptoms and inflammation, the  importance of key symptoms such as nocturnal waking,  the different types of medication, and, if appropriate,   the use of PEF to guide management decisions, should  be given. A variety of tools/questionnaires have   been validated to assist in assessing asthma control.  Written action plans can be helpful in developing self- management skills. \u2022 uses inhaled  \u03b22-agonists three times a week or more \u2022 reports symptoms three times a week or more \u2022 is awakened by asthma one night per week. occupational asthma (p. 715) but may also be relevant in  atopic patients, when removing or reducing exposure to  For adults, a reasonable starting dose is 400  \u00b5 g  beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) or equivalent per  day in adults, although higher doses may be required in  smokers. Alternative but much less effective preventive   Levels of asthma control * Controlled Partly controlled (any present  in any week) Uncontrolled None ( \u2264  twice/wk) >  twice/wk Limitations of activities None Any Nocturnal symptoms/awakening None Any \u2265  3 features of partly controlled  asthma present in any wk Need for rescue/\u2018reliever\u2019 treatment None ( \u2264  twice/wk) >  twice/wk Normal <  80% predicted or personal  best (if known) on any day Exacerbation None \u2265  1/yr 1 in any wk RespiRatoRy disease appropriate to the initial severity of their asthma. Check concordance and reconsider diagnosis if response due to treatment is unexpectedly poor in lowest dose providing adequate control inhaled steroid at 2000  \u00b5 g/day* Inhaled short-acting \u03b22-agonist as required Add inhaled steroid 200\u2013800 \u00b5 g/day* 400  \u00b5 g is an appropriate starting dose for many patients Consider trials of: \u2022 Increasing inhaled    steroid up to    2000  \u00b5 g/day* \u2022 Addition of a fourth    drug, e.g. leukotriene    receptor antagonist, SR    theophylline,  \u03b22-agonist    tablet  Consider other treatments to minimise use of steroid tablets Refer patient for specialist care Start at dose of inhaled steroid appropriate to severity of disease    acting \u03b22-agonist    (LABA) 2 Assess control of    asthma:    \u2022  Good response to       LABA       \u2013 continue LABA    \u2022  Benefit from LABA       but control still       inadequate \u2013 continue LABA and       increase inhaled       steroid dose to       800  \u00b5 g/day* (if not       already on this dose)    \u2022  No response       to LABA \u2013 stop LABA and       increase inhaled       steroid to 800  \u00b5 g/       day.* If control still       inadequate, institute       trial of other therapies,       leukotriene receptor       antagonist or SR       theophylline Continuous or frequent use of oral steroids STEP 3 Persistent poor control STEP 2 Initial add-on therapy STEP 1 Regular preventer therapy Mild intermittent asthma vs Treatment Symptoms Management approach in adults based on asthma control. *Beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) or equivalent. From British Thoracic  Society and SIGN \u2013 see p. 732. \u2022 Remove the cap and shake the inhaler  Inhaled corticosteroids and asthma    mouthpiece into the mouth severe exacerbations in patients with mild persistent asthma.\u2019    oropharyngeal deposition \u2022 Simultaneously, begin a slow deep    inspiration, depress the canister and    continue to inhale \u2022 Hold the breath for 10 seconds How to use a metered-dose inhaler. nists, and theophyllines. modifiable aggravating factors. A further increase in the  dose of ICS may benefit some patients but, in general,  add-on therapy should be considered in adults taking  800  \u00b5 g/day BDP (or equivalent). Long-acting  \u03b22-agonists (LABAs), such as salmeterol  and formoterol (duration of action of at least 12 hours),  represent the first choice of add-on therapy. They have  consistently been demonstrated to improve asthma  control and to reduce the frequency and severity of exac- erbations when compared to increasing the dose of ICS  alone. Fixed combination inhalers of ICS and LABAs  have been developed; these are more convenient,  increase compliance and prevent patients using a LABA  use of ICS, a thorough review should be undertaken of   Asthma in pregnancy Unpredictable clinical course : one-third worsen, one-third  remain stable and one-third improve. (or oral) corticosteroid should be titrated to the lowest  dose at which effective control of asthma is maintained.  Decreasing the dose of ICS by around 25\u201350% every   3 months is a reasonable strategy for most patients. Labour and delivery : 90% have no symptoms. \u2022  Safety data : good for  \u03b22-agonists, inhaled steroids,  theophyllines, oral prednisolone, and chromones. \u2022  Oral leukotriene receptor antagonists : no evidence that  these harm the fetus and they should not be stopped in  women who have previously demonstrated significant  improvement in asthma control prior to pregnancy. \u2022  Steroids : women on maintenance prednisolone  >  7.5 mg/ day should receive hydrocortisone 100 mg 3\u20134 times daily  during labour. \u2022  Prostaglandin F2 \u03b1 : may induce bronchospasm and should  be used with extreme caution. \u2022  Breastfeeding : use medications as normal. \u2022  Uncontrolled asthma : associated with maternal  tions with increased symptoms, deterioration in lung  function, and an increase in airway inflammation. Exac- erbations are most commonly precipitated by viral infec- tions, but moulds ( Alternaria  and  Cladosporium ), pollens  (particularly following thunderstorms) and air pollution  are also implicated. Most attacks are characterised by a  gradual deterioration over several hours to days but  some appear to occur with little or no warning: so-called  brittle asthma. An important minority of patients appear  to have a blunted perception of airway narrowing and  fail to appreciate the early signs of deterioration. haemorrhage, complicated labour) and fetal (intrauterine  growth restriction and low birth weight, preterm birth,  increased perinatal mortality, neonatal hypoxia)  complications. impending exacerbation. Short courses of \u2018rescue\u2019 oral  cortico steroids (prednisolone 30\u201360 mg daily) therefore  are often required to regain control. Tapering of the dose  to withdraw treatment is not necessary, unless given for  more than 3 weeks. Indications for \u2018rescue\u2019 courses include: \u2022 symptoms and PEF progressively worsening day by  as monotherapy \u2013 the latter may be accompanied by an  increased risk of life-threatening attacks or asthma  death. The onset of action of formoterol is similar to that  of salbutamol such that, in carefully selected patients, a  fixed combination of budesonide and formoterol may be  used as both rescue and maintenance therapy. Oral leukotriene receptor antagonists (e.g. montelu- day, with a fall of PEF below 60% of the patient\u2019s  personal best recording \u2022 onset or worsening of sleep disturbance by asthma \u2022 persistence of morning symptoms until midday \u2022 progressively diminishing response to an inhaled  bronchodilator \u2022 symptoms sufficiently severe to require treatment  kast 10 mg daily) are generally less effective than LABA  as add-on therapy, but may facilitate a reduction in the  dose of ICS and control exacerbations. Oral theophyllines  may be considered in some patients but their unpredict- able metabolism, propensity for drug interactions and  prominent side-effects limit their widespread use. with nebulised or injected bronchodilators.  highlights the immediate assessment require- ments in acute asthma. Measurement of PEF is   Immediate assessment of acute  severe asthma of inhaled steroid and add-on therapy:   addition of a fourth drugIn adults, the dose of ICS may be increased to 2000  \u00b5 g  BDP/BUD (or equivalent) daily. A nasal corticosteroid  preparation should be used in patients with prominent  upper airway symptoms. Oral therapy with leukotriene  receptor antagonists, theophyllines or a slow-release  \u03b22- agonist may be considered. If the trial of add-on therapy  is ineffective, it should be discontinued. Oral itracona- zole may be contemplated in patients with allergic bron- chopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697). <  200 L/min) \u2022 Respiratory rate  \u2265  25 breaths/min \u2022 Heart rate  \u2265  110 beats/min \u2022 Inability to complete sentences in 1 breath <  33% predicted  ( <  100 L/min) \u2022  Sp O2<  92% or  Pa O2  8 kPa (60 mmHg)  (especially if being treated  with oxygen) \u2022 Cyanosis \u2022 Feeble respiratory effort \u2022 Bradycardia or arrhythmias \u2022 Hypotension \u2022 Exhaustion \u2022 Confusion \u2022 Coma \u2022 Normal or raised  Pa CO2\u2022 Silent chest Pa CO2 and/or requiring mechanical ventilation with  raised inflation pressures tered as a single daily dose in the morning) should be  prescribed in the lowest amount necessary to control  symptoms. Patients on long-term corticosteroid tablets  ( >  3 months) or receiving more than three or four courses  per year will be at risk of systemic side-effects ( p. 776 ).  Osteoporosis can be prevented in this group by giving  bisphosphonates ( p. 1123 ). In atopic patients, omalizu- mab, a monoclonal antibody directed against IgE, may  prove helpful in reducing symptoms and allowing a  reduction in the prednisolone dose. Steroid-sparing  therapies, such as methotrexate, ciclosporin or oral gold,  may be considered. Convert PEF to % best or % predicted Moderate Mild 50% 0% 75% 51% 100% 76% Life-threatening/acute severe Did patient receive nebulised therapy before PEF recorded? Yes Nebulised salbutamol 5 mg or terbutaline 2.5 mg Oxygen\u2014high-flow/60% Prednisolone 40 mg orally Arterial blood gas Nebulised salbutamol 5 mg or terbutaline 2.5 mg 6\u201312 times daily or as required Oxygen\u2014high-flow/60% Prednisolone 40 mg orally (or hydrocortisone 200 mg IV) Wait 30 mins Usual inhaled bronchodilator Wait 60 mins Measure PEF Home PEF < 60% predicted \u2022 Usual treatment \u2022 Return immediately if worse \u2022 Appointment with GP within   48 hrs IV access, CXR, plasma theophylline  level, plasma K+ PEF > 60% predicted Home \u2022 Check with senior medical staff \u2022 Prednisolone 40 mg daily for 5 days \u2022 Start or double inhaled   corticosteroids \u2022 Return immediately if worse \u2022 Appointment with GP within 48 hrs \u2022 Administer repeat salbutamol    5 mg + ipratropium bromide 500  \u00b5 g   by oxygen-driven nebuliser \u2022 Consider continuous salbutamol   nebuliser 5\u201310 mg/hr \u2022 Consider IV magnesium sulphate   1.2\u20132.0 g over 20 mins, or   aminophylline 5 mg/kg loading dose   over 20 mins followed by a   continuous infusion at 1 mg/kg/hr \u2022 Correct fluid and electrolytes   (especially K+)  Immediate treatment of patients with acute severe asthma. is most easily interpreted when expressed as a percent- age of the predicted normal or of the previous best value  obtained on optimal treatment ( Fig. 19.24 ). Arterial  blood gas analysis is essential to determine the  Pa CO2,  a normal or elevated level being particularly dangerous.  A chest X-ray is not immediately necessary, unless  pneumo thorax is suspected. Treatment includes the following measures: \u2022  Oxygen.  High concentrations (humidified if  possible) should be administered to maintain the  oxygen saturation above 92% in adults. The  presence of a high  Pa CO2 should not be taken as an  indication to reduce oxygen concentration, but as a  warning sign of a severe or life-threatening attack.  Failure to achieve appropriate oxygenation is an  indication for assisted ventilation. intravenous hydrocortisone may be used in patients  who are vomiting or unable to swallow. There is no evidence base for the use of intravenous  fluids but many patients are dehydrated due to high  insensible water loss and will probably benefit. Potas- sium supplements may be necessary, as repeated doses  of salbutamol can lower serum potassium. If patients fail to improve, a number of further options  may be considered. Intravenous magnesium may  provide additional bronchodilatation in patients whose  presenting PEF is below 30% predicted. Some patients  appear to benefit from the use of intravenous amino- phylline but cardiac monitoring is recommended. PEF should be recorded every 15\u201330 minutes and  then every 4\u20136 hours. Pulse oximetry should ensure that  Sa O2 remains above 92%, but repeat arterial blood gases  are necessary if the initial  Pa CO2 measurements were  normal or raised, the  Pa O2 was below 8 kPa (60 mmHg),  or the patient deteriorates.  Box 19.26  lists the indications   Indications for assisted ventilation in  acute severe asthma \u2022 Respiratory arrest \u2022 Deterioration of arterial blood gas tensions despite optimal  High doses of inhaled bronchodilators.  Short-acting  \u03b22-agonists are the agent of choice. In hospital, they  are most conveniently given via a nebuliser driven  by oxygen, but delivery of multiple doses of  salbutamol via a metered-dose inhaler through a  spacer device provides equivalent bronchodilatation  and can be used in primary care. Ipratropium  bromide provides further bronchodilator therapy  and should be added to salbutamol in acute severe  or life-threatening attacks. Pa O2<  8 kPa (60 mmHg) and falling Pa CO2>  6 kPa (45 mmHg) and rising pH low and falling (H+ high and rising) \u2022 Exhaustion, confusion, drowsiness Systemic corticosteroids.  These reduce the  inflammatory response and hasten the resolution of  an exacerbation. They should be administered to all  patients with an acute severe attack. They can  usually be administered orally as prednisolone, but  pressure ventilation. consecutive years) and emphysema (abnormal perma- nent enlargement of the airspaces distal to the terminal   bronchioles, accompanied by destruction of their walls  and without obvious fibrosis). Extra-pulmonary effects  include weight loss and skeletal muscle dysfunction  ( Fig. 19.25 ). Commonly associated comorbid conditions  include cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease,  the metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, depression and  lung cancer. good. Death is fortunately rare but a considerable  number of deaths occur in young people and many are  preventable. Failure to recognise the severity of an  attack, on the part of either the assessing physician or  the patient, contributes to delay in delivering appropri- ate therapy and to under-treatment. Prior to discharge, patients should be stable on dis- charge medication (nebulised therapy should have been  discontinued for at least 24 hours) and the PEF should  have reached 75% of predicted or personal best. The  acute attack should prompt a look for and avoidance of  any trigger factors, the delivery of asthma education and  the provision of a written self-management plan. The  patient should be offered an appointment with a GP or  asthma nurse within 2 working days of discharge, and  follow-up at a specialist hospital clinic within a month. lence of tobacco smoking and, in low- and middle- income countries, the use of biomass fuels. Current  estimates suggest that 80 million people worldwide  suffer from moderate to severe disease. In 2005, COPD  contributed to more than 3 million deaths (5% of   deaths globally), but, by 2020, it is forecast to represent  the third most important cause of death worldwide. The  anticipated rise in morbidity and mortality from COPD  will be greatest in Asian and African countries, as a  result of their increasing tobacco consumption. Other risk factors are shown in  Box 19.27 . Cigarette  smoking represents the most significant risk factor, and  the risk of developing COPD relates to both the amount  and the duration of smoking. It is unusual to develop  COPD with less than 10 pack years (1 pack year  = 20 cigarettes/day/year) and not all smokers develop  the condition, suggesting that individual susceptibility  factors are important. (see  Fig. 19.25 ). The presence of airflow limitation,  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a pre- ventable and treatable disease characterised by persist- ent airflow limitation that is usually progressive, and  associated with an enhanced chronic inflammatory  response in the airways and the lung to noxious particles  or gases. Exacerbations and comorbidities contribute to  the overall severity in individual patients. Related diag- noses include chronic bronchitis (cough and sputum   on most days for at least 3 months, in each of 2  and increase in number of goblet cells, accompanied by an inflammatory cell infiltrate, result in increased sputum production leading to chronic bronchitis Loss of elastic tissue, inflammation and fibrosis in airway wall result in premature airway closure, gas trapping and dynamic hyperinflation leading to changes in  pulmonary and chest wall compliance Pulmonary vascular remodelling and impaired cardiac performance Unopposed action of proteases and oxidants leading to destruction of alveoli and appearance of emphysema Pulmonary Systemic \u2191  Prevalence of osteoporosis Muscular weakness reflecting deconditioning and cellular changes in skeletal muscles Altered fat metabolism contributing to weight loss Increased circulating inflammatory markers Impaired salt and water excretion leading to peripheral oedema 673 The pulmonary and systemic features of COPD.  Risk factors for development of COPD \u2022 Indoor air pollution; cooking with biomass fuels in confined  areas in developing countries \u2022 Occupational exposures, such as coal dust, silica and  cadmium \u2022 Low birth weight may reduce maximally attained lung  function in young adult life \u2022 Lung growth: childhood infections or maternal smoking may  affect growth of lung during childhood, resulting in a lower  maximally attained lung function in adult life \u2022 Infections: recurrent infection may accelerate decline in FEV1;  inflammatory response, predisposing to lung damage; HIV  infection is associated with emphysema \u2022 Low socioeconomic status \u2022 Cannabis smoking \u03b11-antiproteinase deficiency; other COPD  susceptibility genes are likely to be identified \u2022 Airway hyper-reactivity Fig. 19.26 The pathology of emphysema. A Normal lung.B Emphysematous lung showing gross loss of the normal surface  area available for gas exchange.   Modified MRC dyspnoea scale Degree of breathlessness related to activities No breathlessness, except with strenuous exercise 1 Breathlessness when hurrying on the level or  walking up a slight hill trapping and hyperinflation, reducing pulmonary and  chest wall compliance. Pulmonary hyperinflation also  flattens the diaphragmatic muscles and leads to an  increasingly horizontal alignment of the intercostal  muscles, placing the respiratory muscles at a mechani- cal disadvantage. The work of breathing is therefore  markedly increased, first on exercise, when the time for  expiration is further shortened, but then, as the disease  advances, at rest. Emphysema ( Fig. 19.26 ) may be classified by the  pattern of the enlarged airspaces as centriacinar,   panacinar or paraseptal. Bullae form in some individu- als. This results in impaired gas exchange and respira- tory failure. Walks slower than contemporaries on level ground  because of breathlessness or has to stop for breath  when walking at own pace 3 Stops for breath after walking about 100 m or after  a few minutes on level ground 4 Too breathless to leave the house, or breathless  when dressing or undressing =  Medical Research Council) of 40 years who presents with symptoms of chronic  bronchitis and/or breathlessness. Important differential  diagnoses include chronic asthma, tuberculosis, bron- chiectasis and congestive cardiac failure. Cough and associated sputum production are usually  the first symptoms, often referred to as a \u2018smoker\u2019s  cough\u2019. Haemoptysis may complicate exacerbations of  COPD but should not be attributed to COPD without  thorough investigation. Breathlessness usually precipitates the presentation  to health care. The severity should be quantified by  documenting what level of exertion the patient can  manage before stopping; scales such as the modified  MRC dyspnoea scale may be useful ( Box 19.28 ). In  advanced disease, enquiry should be made about the  presence of oedema, which may be seen for the first time  during an exacerbation, and morning headaches, which  may suggest hypercapnia. Physical signs (pp. 644\u2013645) are non-specific, corre- cally quiet. Crackles may accompany infection but, if  persistent, raise the possibility of bronchiectasis. Finger  clubbing is not a feature of COPD and should trigger  further investigation for lung cancer or fibrosis. Pitting  oedema should be sought but the frequently used term  \u2018cor pulmonale\u2019 is actually a misnomer, as the right heart  seldom \u2018fails\u2019 in COPD and the occurrence of oedema  usually relates to failure of salt and water excretion by  the hypoxic hypercapnic kidney. The body mass index  (BMI \u2013  p. 114 ) is of prognostic significance. Two classical phenotypes have been described: \u2018pink  puffers\u2019 and \u2018blue bloaters\u2019. The former are typically thin  late poorly with lung function, and are seldom obvious  Pa CO2 until the  late stage of disease. The latter develop (or tolerate)  hypercapnia earlier and may develop oedema and sec- ondary polycythaemia. In practice, these phenotypes  often overlap. L Gross emphysema. HRCT showing emphysema, most  evident in the right lower lobe.  Fig. 19.28 ) has been the  subject of unjustified pessimism. It is usually possible to  help breathlessness, reduce the frequency and severity  of exacerbations, enhance the health status, and improve  the prognosis. correlate with the severity of airflow limitation, a chest  X-ray is essential to identify alternative diagnoses, such  as cardiac failure, other complications of smoking such  as lung cancer, and the presence of bullae. A blood count  is useful to exclude anaemia or polycythaemia, and in  younger patients with predominantly basal emphy- sema,  \u03b11-antiproteinase should be assayed. The diagnosis requires objective demonstration of  airflow obstruction by spirometry and is established  when the post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC is less than  70%. The severity of COPD may be defined in relation  to the post-bronchodilator FEV1 ( Box 19.29 ). A low peak  flow is consistent with COPD but is non-specific, does  not discriminate between obstructive and restrictive dis- orders, and may underestimate the severity of airflow  limitation. Measurement of lung volumes provides an assess- the role of smoking in the development and progression  of COPD, with advice and assistance to help them stop  ( p. 100 ). Reducing the number of cigarettes smoked each  day has little impact on the course and prognosis of  COPD, but complete cessation is accompanied by an  improvement in lung function and deceleration in the  rate of FEV1 decline ( Fig. 19.29  and  Box 19.30 ). In regions  where the indoor burning of biomass fuels is important,  the introduction of non-smoking cooking devices or use  of alternative fuels should be encouraged. ment of hyperinflation. This is generally performed by  using the helium dilution technique (p. 653); in patients  with severe COPD, and with large bullae in particular,  body plethysmography is preferred because the use of  helium may underestimate lung volumes. Emphysema  is suggested by a low gas transfer value (p. 653). Exercise  tests provide an objective assessment of exercise toler- ance and a baseline for judging response to bronchodila- tor therapy or rehabilitation programmes; they may also  be valuable when assessing prognosis. Pulse oximetry  of less than 93% may indicate the need for referral for a  domiciliary oxygen assessment. The assessment of health status provides valuable  clinical information. The St George\u2019s Respiratory Ques- tionnaire (SGRQ) is a commonly used research tool but  is too cumbersome for routine clinical practice. The  COPD Assessment Test (CAT) employs only eight ques- tions and the scores correlate closely with the SGRQ. HRCT is likely to play an increasing role in the assess- ment of COPD, as it allows the detection, characterisa- tion and quantification of emphysema ( Fig. 19.27 ) and is  more sensitive than a chest X-ray for detecting bullae.  Spirometric classification of COPD severity  based on post-bronchodilator FEV1 Severity FEV1I Mild * FEV1/FVC  <  0.70 FEV1\u2265  80% predicted breathlessness. The inhaled route is preferred and a  number of different agents, delivered by a variety of  devices, are available. Choice should be informed by  patient preference and inhaler assessment. Short-acting  bronchodilators, such as the  \u03b22-agonists salbutamol and  terbutaline, or the anticholinergic ipratropium bromide,  may be used for patients with mild disease, but longer- acting bronchodilators, such as the  \u03b22-agonists salme- terol, formoterol and indacaterol, or the anticholinergic  tiotropium bromide, are more appropriate for patients  with moderate to severe disease. Significant improve- ments in breathlessness may be reported, despite  minimal changes in FEV1, probably reflecting improve- ments in lung emptying that reduce dynamic hyper- inflation and ease the work of breathing. Moderate FEV1/FVC  <  0.70 FEV1 50\u201379% predicted III Severe FEV1/FVC  <  0.70 FEV1 30\u201349% predicted  Smoking cessation and COPD Very severe FEV1/FVC  <  0.70 FEV1<  30% predicted or FEV1<  50%  predicted if respiratory failure present \u2018Sustained smoking cessation in mild to moderate COPD is  accompanied by a reduced decline in FEV1 compared to  persistent smokers.\u2019 asymptomatic. Based on NICE guidelines 2010. RespiRatoRy disease I : Mild II : Moderate III : Severe IV : Very severe \u2022 FEV1 < 30% predicted  or   FEV1 < 50% predicted  plus   chronic respiratory failure \u2022 FEV1/FVC < 0.70 \u2022 30%  \u2264  FEV1<  50%   predicted \u2022 FEV1/FVC < 0.70 \u2022 50%  \u2264  FEV1<  80%   predicted \u2022 FEV1/FVC < 0.70 \u2022 FEV1\u2265  80% predicted Active reduction of risk factor(s); influenza vaccination Add  short-acting bronchodilator (when needed) Add  regular treatment with one or more long-acting bronchodilators (when needed) Add  rehabilitation Add  inhaled glucocorticosteroids if repeated exacerbations Add  long-term oxygen if chronic respiratory failure Consider  surgical treatments Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines for treatment of COPD. Post-bronchodilator FEV1 is  recommended for the diagnosis and assessment of severity of COPD. From  www.goldcopd.com  \u2013 see p. 732. Never smoked or not susceptible to smoke FEV1(% of value at age 25) in COPD. 75 50 Stopped smoking at 45 Smoked regularly and susceptible to its effects 25 Disability reassured that breathlessness, whilst distressing, is not  dangerous. Multidisciplinary programmes that incorpo- rate physical training, disease education and nutritional  counselling reduce symptoms, improve health status  and enhance confidence. Most programmes include   2\u20133 sessions per week for 6 and 12 weeks, and are  accompanied by demonstrable and sustained improve- ments in exercise tolerance and health status. smoking at 65 Death 0 75 50 25 Age (years) shown to be of significant benefit in selected patients  ( Boxes 19.31  and  19.32 ). It is most conveniently provided Fig. 19.29 Model of annual decline in FEV1 with accelerated  decline in susceptible smokers. When smoking is stopped,  subsequent loss is similar to that in healthy non-smokers.   Long-term domiciliary oxygen  therapy patients with COPD complicated by severe hypoxaemia (arterial  Pa O2 less than 8.0 kPa (55 mmHg)).\u2019 disease. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2005, issue 4. Art no.  CD001744. For further information:  www.brit-thoracic.org.uk Theophylline preparations improve breathlessness and  quality of life, but their use is limited by side-effects,  unpredictable metabolism and drug interactions. Bam- buterol, a pro-drug of terbutaline, is used on occasion.  Orally active, highly selective phosphodiesterase inhibi- tors are currently under appraisal.  Prescription of long-term oxygen therapy  in COPD optimal medical therapy on at least two occasions 3 weeks  apart: \u2022  Pa O2<  7.3 kPa (55 mmHg) irrespective of  Pa CO2 and FEV1  1.5 L \u2022  Pa O2 7.3\u20138 kPa (55\u201360 mmHg) plus pulmonary hypertension,  and severity of exacerbations, and are currently  re commended in patients with severe disease (FEV1<  50%) who report two or more exacerbations requiring  antibiotics or oral steroids per year. Regular use is asso- ciated with a small improvement in FEV1, but ICS do  not alter the natural history of the FEV1 decline. It is  more usual to prescribe a fixed combination of an ICS  and a LABA. Use at least 15 hrs/day at 2\u20134 L/min to achieve a  Pa O2>  8 kPa (60 mmHg) without unacceptable rise in  Pa CO2. and impaired skeletal muscle function and should be  avoided. Oral corticosteroid trials assist in the diagnosis  monary hypertension. A composite score comprising the  body mass index (B), the degree of airflow obstruction  (O), a measurement of dyspnoea (D) and exercise capac- ity (E) may assist in predicting death from respiratory  and other causes ( Box 19.33 ). Respiratory failure, cardiac  disease and lung cancer represent common modes of  death. by an oxygen concentrator and patients should be  instructed to use oxygen for a minimum of 15 hours per  day; greater benefits are seen in patients who receive  more than 20 hours per day. The aim of therapy is to  increase the  Pa O2 to at least 8 kPa (60 mmHg) or  Sa O2 to  at least 90%. Ambulatory oxygen therapy should be con- sidered in patients who desaturate on exercise and show  objective improvement in exercise capacity and/or   dyspnoea with oxygen. Oxygen flow rates should be  adjusted to maintain  Sa O2 above 90%. normal lung tissue, who otherwise have minimal airflow  limitation and a lack of generalised emphysema, may be  considered for bullectomy. Patients with predominantly  upper lobe emphysema, with preserved gas transfer and  no evidence of pulmonary hypertension, may benefit  from lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS), in which  peripheral emphysematous lung tissue is resected with  the aim of reducing hyperinflation and decreasing the  work of breathing. Both bullectomy and LVRS can be  performed thora scopically, minimising morbidity. Lung  transplantation may benefit carefully selected patients  with advanced disease (p. 665). increase in symptoms and deterioration in lung function  and health status. They become more frequent as the  disease progresses and are usually triggered by bacteria,  viruses or a change in air quality. They may be accom- panied by the development of respiratory failure and/ or fluid retention and are an important cause of death. Many patients can be managed at home with the use  of increased bronchodilator therapy, a short course of  oral corticosteroids and, if appropriate, antibiotics. The  presence of cyanosis, peripheral oedema or an alteration  in consciousness indicates the need for referral to hospi- tal. In other patients, consideration of comorbidity and  social circumstances may influence decisions regarding  hospital admission. concentrations of oxygen may cause respiratory depres- sion and worsening acidosis (p. 665). Controlled oxygen  at 24% or 28% should be used with the aim of maintain- ing a  Pa O2 above 8 kPa (60 mmHg) (or an  Sa O2 between  88% and 92%) without worsening acidosis. Nebulised short-acting  \u03b22-agonists, combined with an  anticholinergic agent (e.g. salbutamol and ipratropium),  should be administered. With careful supervision, it is  usually safe to drive nebulisers with oxygen, but if  enza vaccination and, as appropriate, pneumococcal  vaccination. Obesity, poor nutrition, depression and  social isolation should be addressed as far as possible.  Mucolytic therapy or antioxidant agents are occasionally  used but with limited evidence. Addressing end-of-life needs is an important yet  often ignored aspect of care in advanced disease. Mor- phine may be used for palliation of breathlessness in  advanced disease and benzodiazepines in low dose may  reduce anxiety. Decisions regarding resuscitation should  be discussed with the patient in advance of critical  illness.   Obstructive pulmonary disease in old age Asthma : may appear de novo in old age, so airflow  obstruction should not always be assumed to be due to COPD. \u2022  PEF recordings : older people with poor vision have difficulty  gressive. The prognosis is inversely related to age and  directly related to the post-bronchodilator FEV1. Other  \u2022  Perception of bronchoconstriction : impaired by age, so an  older patient\u2019s description of symptoms may not be a reliable  indicator of severity. \u2022  Stopping smoking : the benefits on the rate of loss of lung   Calculation of the BODE index of 80. \u2022  Metered-dose inhalers : many older people cannot use  0 1 2 3  65 50\u201364 36\u201349 \u2264  35 \u2265  350 250\u2013349 150\u2013249 \u2264  149 these because of difficulty coordinating and triggering the  device. Even mild cognitive impairment virtually precludes  their use. Frequent demonstration and re-instruction in the  use of all devices are required. Distance walked  in 6 mins (m) \u2022  Mortality rates for acute asthma : higher in old age, partly  0\u20131 2 3 4 MRC dyspnoea  scale * Body mass  index >  21 \u2264  21 because patients underestimate the severity of  bronchoconstriction and also develop a lower degree of  tachycardia and pulsus paradoxus for the same degree of  bronchoconstriction. \u2022  Treatment decisions : advanced age in itself is not a barrier  A patient with a BODE score of 0\u20132 has a mortality rate of  around 10% at 52 mths, whereas a patient with a BODE score  of 7\u201310 has a mortality rate of around 80% at 52 mths. episode of asthma or COPD, but this decision may be difficult  and should be shared with the patient (if possible), the  relatives and the GP. RespiRatoRy disease  Causes of bronchiectasis driven by compressed air and supplemental oxygen  delivered by nasal cannula. Oral prednisolone reduces symptoms and improves  \u2022 Ciliary dysfunction syndromes Primary ciliary dyskinesia (immotile cilia syndrome) Kartagener\u2019s syndrome (sinusitis and transposition of the  viscera) \u2022 Primary hypogammaglobulinaemia ( p. 881 ) are recommended but shorter courses may be   acceptable. Prophylaxis against osteoporosis should be  considered in patients who receive repeated courses of  steroids ( p. 776 ). The role of bacteria in exacerbations remains contro- \u2022 Primary TB \u2022 Inhaled foreign body \u2022 Pulmonary TB \u2022 Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis complicating asthma  (p. 697) \u2022 Bronchial tumours istration of antibiotics. They are currently recommended,  however, for patients reporting an increase in sputum  purulence, sputum volume or breathlessness. In most  cases, simple regimens are advised, such as an   aminopenicillin or a macrolide. Co-amoxiclav is only  required in regions where  \u03b2 -lactamase-producing organ- isms are known to be common. If, despite the above measures, the patient remains  tachypnoeic, hypercapnic and acidotic ( Pa CO2>  6 kPa,  H+\u2265  45 (pH  <  7.35)), then NIV should be commenced  ( p. 193 ). Its use is associated with reduced requirements  for mechanical ventilation and reduced mortality ( Box 19.35 ). It is not useful in patients who cannot protect  their airway. Mechanical ventilation may be considered  in those with a reversible cause for deterioration (e.g.  pneumonia), or if there is no prior history of respiratory  failure. Exacerbations may be accompanied by the develop- affecting airway ion transport or ciliary function, such  as cystic fibrosis (see below), or may be acquired second- ary to damage to the airways by a destructive infection,  inhaled toxin or foreign body. The result is chronic  inflammation and infection in airways.  Box 19.36  shows  the common causes, of which tuberculosis is the most  common worldwide. Localised bronchiectasis may occur due to the accu- mulation of pus beyond an obstructing bronchial lesion,  such as enlarged tuberculous hilar lymph nodes, a   bronchial tumour or an inhaled foreign body (e.g. an  aspirated peanut). The bronchiectatic cavities may be lined by granula- ment of peripheral oedema that usually responds to  diuretics. There has been a vogue for using intravenous  infusions of aminophylline, but evidence for benefit is  limited and there is an associated risk of inducing  arrhythmias and drug interactions. The use of the respi- ratory stimulant doxapram has been largely superseded  by the development of NIV, but it may be useful for   a limited period in selected patients with a low   respiratory rate. Discharge from hospital may be planned once  patients are clinically stable on their usual maintenance  medication. The provision of a nurse-led \u2018hospital   at home\u2019 team providing short-term nebuliser loan  improves discharge rates and additional support for the  patient. tion tissue, squamous epithelium or normal ciliated epi- thelium. There may also be inflammatory changes in the  deeper layers of the bronchial wall and hypertrophy of  the bronchial arteries. Chronic inflammatory and fibrotic  changes are usually found in the surrounding lung  tissue, resulting in progressive destruction of the normal  lung architecture in advanced cases.  Non-invasive ventilation in COPD  exacerbations Box 19.37 . Physical signs in the chest may be unilateral or bilat- acute exacerbation of COPD complicated by mild to moderate  respiratory acidosis, and should be considered early in the  course of respiratory failure to reduce the need for endotracheal  intubation, treatment failure and mortality.\u2019 respiratory failure due to exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2004, issue 3. Art. no. CD004104. tions and there is no associated lobar collapse, there are  no abnormal physical signs. When there are large  amounts of sputum in the bronchiectatic spaces, numer- ous coarse crackles may be heard over the affected areas.  Collapse with retained secretions blocking a proximal  bronchus may lead to locally diminished breath sounds,  while advanced disease may cause scarring and over- lying bronchial breathing. Acute haemoptysis is an  important complication of bronchiectasis; management  is described on page 659. culture may reveal  Pseudomonas aeruginosa , fungi such as  Aspergillus  and various mycobacteria. Frequent cultures  Bronchiectasis means abnormal dilatation of the bronchi.  Chronic suppurative airway infection with sputum pro- duction, progressive scarring and lung damage occur,  whatever the cause. Obstructive pulmonary diseases  Symptoms of bronchiectasis Cough : chronic, daily, persistent \u2022  Sputum : copious, continuously purulent \u2022  Pleuritic pain : when infection spreads to involve pleura, or  with segmental collapse due to retained secretions \u2022  Haemoptysis : Streaks of blood common, larger volumes with  exacerbations of infection Massive haemoptysis requiring bronchial artery  embolisation sometimes occurs \u2022  Infective exacerbation : increased sputum volume with  fever, malaise, anorexia \u2022  Halitosis : frequently accompanies purulent sputum \u2022  General debility : difficulty maintaining weight, anorexia,  exertional breathlessness physiotherapy to assist the drainage of excess bronchial  secretions. Efficiently executed, this is of great value  both in reducing the amount of cough and sputum, and  in preventing recurrent episodes of bronchopulmonary  infection. Patients should lie in a position in which the  lobe to be drained is uppermost. Deep breathing fol- lowed by forced expiratory man\u0153uvres (the \u2018active cycle  of breathing\u2019 technique) helps to move secretions in the  dilated bronchi towards the trachea, from which they  can be cleared by vigorous coughing. Devices that  increase airway pressure either by a constant amount  (positive expiratory pressure mask) or in an oscillatory  manner (flutter valve), aid sputum clearance in some  patients, and a variety of techniques should be tried to  find the one that suits the individual. The optimum  duration and frequency of physiotherapy depend on the  amount of sputum, but 5\u201310 minutes twice daily is a  minimum for most patients. L antibiotics are the same as those used in COPD (p. 678)  but larger doses and longer courses are required, and  resolution of symptoms is often incomplete. When   secondary infection occurs with staphylococci and   Gram-negative bacilli, in particular  Pseudomonas  species,  antibiotic therapy becomes more challenging and should  be guided by the microbiological sensitivities. For   Pseudomonas , oral ciprofloxacin (500\u2013750 mg twice daily)  or ceftazidime by intravenous injection or infusion  (1\u20132 g 3 times daily) may be required. Haemoptysis in  bronchiectasis often responds to treatment of the under- lying infection, although, in severe cases, percutaneous  embolisation of the bronchial circulation by an interven- tional radiologist may be necessary. CT of bronchiectasis. Extensive dilatation of the bronchi,  with thickened walls (arrows) in both lower lobes.  ant organisms. Bronchiectasis, unless very gross, is not usually  apparent on a chest X-ray. In advanced disease, thick- ened airway walls, cystic bronchiectatic spaces, and  associated areas of pneumonic consolidation or collapse  may be visible. CT is much more sensitive, and shows  thickened, dilated airways ( Fig. 19.30 ). A screening test can be performed in patients sus- small proportion of cases. These are usually patients in  whom the bronchiectasis is confined to a single lobe or  segment on CT. Unfortunately, many of the patients in  whom medical treatment proves unsuccessful are   also unsuitable for surgery because of either extensive  bilateral bronchiectasis or coexisting severe airflow  obstruction. In progressive forms of bronchiectasis,  resection of destroyed areas of lung that are acting as a  reservoir of infection should only be considered as a last  resort. dysfunction and cystic fibrosis, and eventually causes  respiratory failure. In other patients, the prognosis can  be relatively good if physiotherapy is performed regu- larly and antibiotics are used aggressively. pected of having a ciliary dysfunction syndrome by  measuring the time taken for a small pellet of saccharin  placed in the anterior chamber of the nose to reach the  pharynx, at which point the patient can taste it. This time  should not exceed 20 minutes but is greatly prolonged  in patients with ciliary dysfunction. Ciliary beat fre- quency may also be assessed from biopsies taken from  the nose. Structural abnormalities of cilia can be detected  by electron microscopy. dilators and corticosteroids should be used to enhance  airway patency. ing measles, whooping cough or a primary tuberculous  infection, adequate prophylaxis for and treatment of  these conditions are essential. The early recognition and  treatment of bronchial obstruction are also important. RespiRatoRy disease high risk. chiolar inflammation and infections usually lead to bron- chiectasis in childhood. At this stage, the lungs are most  commonly infected with  Staphylococcus aureus ; however,  in adulthood, many patients become colonised with  Pseu- domonas aeruginosa . Recurrent exacerbations of bron- chiectasis, initially in the upper lobes but subsequently  throughout both lungs, cause progressive lung damage,  resulting ultimately in death from respiratory failure.  Other clinical manifestations are shown in  Box 19.38 .  Most men with CF are infertile due to failure of develop- ment of the vas deferens, but microsurgical sperm    Complications of cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis \u2022 Respiratory failure \u2022 Cor pulmonale \u2022 Lobar collapse due to  disease in Caucasians, with autosomal recessive inherit- ance, a carrier rate of 1 in 25, and an incidence of about  1 in 2500 live births ( pp. 48 and 53 ). CF is the result of  mutations affecting a gene on the long arm of chromo- some 7, which codes for a chloride channel known as  cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator  ( CFTR ); this influences salt and water movement across  epithelial cell membranes. The most common  CFTR mutation in northern European and American popula- tions is  \u0394 F508 , but over a thousand mutations of this  gene have now been identified. The genetic defect causes  increased sodium and chloride content in sweat and  increased resorption of sodium and water from respira- tory epithelium ( Fig. 19.31 ). Relative dehydration of the  airway epithelium is thought to predispose to chronic  bacterial infection and ciliary dysfunction, leading to  bronchiectasis. The gene defect also causes disorders in  the gut epithelium, pancreas, liver and reproductive  tract (see below). In the 1960s, few patients with CF survived child- \u2022 Spontaneous pneumothorax \u2022 Haemoptysis \u2022 Nasal polyps \u2022 Biliary cirrhosis and portal  steatorrhoea hypertension \u2022 Gallstones \u2022 Distal intestinal obstruction  syndrome \u2022 Delayed puberty \u2022 Male infertility \u2022 Stress incontinence due to  \u2022 Psychosocial problems \u2022 Osteoporosis \u2022 Arthropathy \u2022 Cutaneous vasculitis repeated forced cough and nutritional support, life expectancy has improved  dramatically, so that there are now more adults than  children with CF in many developed countries. Until  recently, the diagnosis was most commonly made from  the clinical picture (bowel obstruction, failure to thrive,  steatorrhoea and/or chest symptoms in a young child),  supported by sweat electrolyte testing and genotyping.  Patients with unusual phenotypes were commonly  missed, however, and late diagnosis led to poorer out- comes. Neonatal screening for CF using immunoreactive  trypsin and genetic testing of newborn blood samples is  now routine in the UK, and should reduce delayed diag- nosis and improve outcomes. Prenatal screening by  NormalA B 1 2 3 4 Apical surface Chloride ion Sodium ion Chloride ion Sodium ion EPITHELIAL CELL cAMP cAMP Basal surface Chloride ion Sodium ion Water Chloride ion Sodium ion Water \u03b22-adrenoceptor Cystic fibrosis: basic defect in the pulmonary epithelium. A The CF gene codes for a chloride channel (1) in the apical (luminal)  membrane of epithelial cells in the conducting airways. This is normally controlled by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and indirectly by  \u03b2 -adrenoceptor stimulation, and is one of several apical ion channels which control the quantity and solute content of airway-lining fluid. Normal channels  appear to inhibit the adjacent epithelial sodium channels (2).  B In cystic fibrosis, one of many CF gene defects causes absence or defective function of  this chloride channel (3). This leads to reduced chloride secretion and loss of inhibition of sodium channels, with excessive sodium resorption (4) and  dehydration of the airway lining. The resulting abnormal airway-lining fluid predisposes to infection by mechanisms still to be fully explained.  680 Infections of the respiratory system   Cystic fibrosis in adolescence Issues for the patient : type is a poor predictor of disease severity in individuals;  even siblings with matching genotypes may have differ- ent phenotypes. This suggests that other \u2018modifier genes\u2019,  as yet unidentified, influence clinical outcome. Feelings of being different from peers due to chronic  illness Demanding treatments that conflict with social and   school life Pressure to take responsibility for self-care Relationship/fertility concerns \u2022  Issues for the patient\u2019s parents : Loss of control over patient\u2019s treatment \u2013 feeling excluded Loss of trusted paediatric team Need to develop trust in adult team Feelings of helplessness when adolescent rebels or will  not take treatment \u2022  Issues for the CF team : bronchiectasis. All patients with CF who produce  sputum should perform chest physiotherapy regularly,  and more frequently during exacerbations. While infec- tions with  Staph. aureus  can often be managed with  oral antibiotics, intravenous treatment (frequently self- administered at home through an implanted subcutane- ous vascular port) is usually needed for  Pseudomonas infections. Regular nebulised antibiotic therapy (colistin  or tobramycin) is used between exacerbations in an  attempt to suppress chronic  Pseudomonas  infection. Unfortunately, the bronchi of many CF patients even- Management of deterioration due to non-adherence Motivation of adolescents to self-care Provision of adolescent-friendly health-care environment feeding, including nasogastric or gastrostomy tube  feeding if required. Diabetes eventually develops in over  25% of patients and often requires insulin therapy.   Osteoporosis secondary to malabsorption and chronic ill  health should be sought and treated. ticular CFTR defects are being developed, and one  (ivacaftor) gives significant clinical benefits in patients  with the G551D mutation. Somatic gene therapy for CF  is also under development. Manufactured normal copies  of the CF gene are \u2018packaged\u2019 in liposomes or virus  vectors and administered to the airways by aerosol inha- lation. Trials are under way but more efficient gene  delivery methods are needed to make this practical. tually become colonised with pathogens that are resist- ant to most antibiotics. Resistant strains of  P. aeruginosa ,  Stenotrophomonas maltophilia  and  Burkholderia cepacia  are  the main culprits, and may require prolonged treatment  with unusual combinations of antibiotics.  Aspergillus and non-tuberculous mycobacteria are also frequently  found in the sputum of CF patients but, in most cases,  these behave as benign \u2018colonisers\u2019 of the bronchiectatic  airways and do not require specific therapy. Some  patients have coexistent asthma, which is treated with  inhaled bronchodilators and corticosteroids; allergic  bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697) also occurs  occasionally in CF. Four maintenance treatments have been shown to  cause modest rises in lung function and/or to reduce the  frequency of chest exacerbations in CF patients ( Box 19.39 ). Individual responses are variable and should be  carefully monitored to avoid burdening patients with  treatments that prove ineffective. For advanced CF lung disease, home oxygen and NIV  may be necessary to treat respiratory failure. Ultimately,  lung transplantation can produce dramatic improve- ments but is limited by donor organ availability. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM prognosis in CF. Malabsorption due to exocrine pancre- atic failure is treated with oral pancreatic enzymes   and vitamin supplements. The increased caloric  Infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract are   a major cause of morbidity and mortality, particularly   in patients at the extremes of age, and those with pre- existing lung disease or immune suppression.  Treatments that reduce chest exacerbations  and/or improve lung function in cystic fibrosis Patients treated \u2265  5, FVC  >  40% predicted Nebulised recombinant  human DNase 2.5 mg daily Patients colonised with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa Nebulised tobramycin  300 mg twice daily, given in  alternate mths Patients colonised with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa Regular oral azithromycin  500 mg three times/wk Age  \u2265  6, FEV1>  40% predicted Nebulised hypertonic saline,  4 mL 7%, twice daily coryza (the common cold), acute pharyngitis and acute  tracheobronchitis, are the most common of all commu- nicable diseases and represent the most frequent cause  of short-term absenteeism from work and school. The  vast majority are caused by viruses ( p. 328 ) and, in  adults, are usually short-lived and rarely serious. Acute coryza is the most common URTI and is usually  the result of rhinovirus infection. In addition to general  malaise, acute coryza typically causes nasal discharge,  sneezing and cough. Involvement of the pharynx results  in a sore throat, that of the larynx a hoarse or lost voice.  ness and wheeze typical of asthma occur. Specific inves- tigation is rarely warranted and treatment with simple  analgesics, antipyretics and decongestants is all that is  required. Symptoms usually resolve quickly, but if  repeated URTIs \u2018go to the chest\u2019, a more formal diagno- sis of asthma ought to be considered. A variety of viruses  causing URTI may also trigger exacerbations of asthma  or COPD and aggravate other lung diseases. Bordetella pertussis , the cause of whooping cough, is  an important source of URTI. It is highly contagious and  is notifiable in the UK. Vaccination confers protection  and is usually offered in infancy, but its efficacy wanes  in adult life and the infection is easily spread. Adults  usually experience a mild illness similar to acute coryza,  but some individuals develop paroxysms of coughing  which can persist for weeks to months, earning whoop- ing cough the designation of \u2018the cough of 100 days\u2019.   The diagnosis may be confirmed by bacterial culture,  polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from a nasopharyngeal  swab or serological testing. If the illness is recognised  early in the clinical course, macrolide antibiotics may  ameliorate the course. Rhinosinusitis typically causes a combination of nasal  congestion, blockage or discharge, and may be accom- panied by facial pain/pressure or loss of smell. Exami- nation usually confirms erythematous swollen nasal  mucosa and pus may be evident. Nasal polyps should  be sought and dental infection excluded. Treatment with  topical corticosteroids, nasal decongestants and regular  nasal douching are usually sufficient and, although bac- terial infection is often present, antibiotics are only indi- cated if symptoms persist for more than 5 days. Persistent  symptoms or recurrent episodes should prompt a refer- ral to an ear, nose and throat specialist. Influenza is discussed on  page 319 . adults suffer from community-acquired pneumonia  (CAP) each year, accounting for around 5\u201312% of all  lower respiratory tract infections. It affects all age groups  but is particularly common at the extremes of age;  worldwide, CAP continues to kill more children than  any other illness, and its propensity to ease the passing  of the frail and elderly led to pneumonia being known  as the \u2018old man\u2019s friend\u2019. Most cases are spread by droplet infection and, whilst  CAP may occur in previously healthy individuals,  several factors may impair the effectiveness of local  defences and predispose to CAP ( Box 19.41 ).  Streptococ- cus pneumoniae  ( Fig. 19.32 ) remains the most common  infecting agent. The likelihood that other organisms may  be involved depends on the age of the patient and the  clinical context. Viral infections are important causes of  CAP in children, and their contribution to adult CAP is  increasingly recognised ( Box 19.42 ). A \u2018best guess\u2019 as to the likely organism may be made  from the context in which pneumonia develops, but not  from the clinical and radiological picture, which does  not differ sufficiently from one organism to another; the  term \u2018atypical pneumonia\u2019 has therefore been dropped.  Mycoplasma pneumoniae  is more common in young  people and rare in the elderly, whereas  Haemophilus  influenzae  is more common in the elderly, particularly  when underlying lung disease is present.  Legionella pneu- mophila  occurs in local outbreaks centred on contami- nated cooling towers in hotels, hospitals and other  industrial buildings.  Staphylococcus aureus  is more  common following an episode of influenza. Foreign  travel raises the possibility of infections that might   otherwise be unusual in the UK: for example,  Burkholde- ria pseudomallei  from South-east Asia. Travel also facili- tates the spread of illnesses such as severe acute   Factors that predispose to pneumonia \u2022 Upper respiratory tract  infections \u2022 Alcohol \u2022 Corticosteroid therapy \u2022 Old age \u2022 Recent influenza infection \u2022 Pre-existing lung disease \u2022 HIV \u2022 Indoor air pollution Gram stain of sputum showing Gram-positive  diplococci characteristic of Strep. pneumoniae (arrows). ciated with recently developed radiological pulmonary   shadowing, which may be segmental, lobar or multi- lobar. The context in which pneumonia develops is  highly indicative of the likely organism(s) involved;  therefore, pneumonias are usually classified as commu- nity- or hospital-acquired, or as occurring in immuno- compromised hosts. \u2018Lobar pneumonia\u2019 is a radiological  and pathological term referring to homogeneous con- solidation of one or more lung lobes, often with associ- ated pleural inflammation. \u2018Bronchopneumonia\u2019 refers  to more patchy alveolar consolidation associated with  bronchial and bronchiolar inflammation, often affecting  both lower lobes. The inflammatory response in lobar pneumonia  evolves through stages of congestion, red then grey  hepatisation, and finally resolution. In the first stage, the  alveolar units are flooded by a proteinaceous exudate  and by neutrophils and red blood cells, and numerous  pneumococci may be observed. As fibrin forms on the  cut surface of the affected lobe, it resembles liver and   so this stage is known as \u2018red hepatisation\u2019. As conges- tion resolves, the lung tissue becomes grey (\u2018grey   hepatisation\u2019), and ultimately, clearance and repair  mechanisms restore the normal architecture of the lung.  Organisms causing community-acquired  pneumonia Chlamydia psittaci \u2022  Coxiella burnetii  (Q fever,  \u2018querry\u2019 fever) \u2022  Klebsiella pneumoniae (Freidl\u00e4nder\u2019s bacillus) Streptococcus pneumoniae \u2022  Mycoplasma pneumoniae \u2022  Legionella pneumophila \u2022  Chlamydia pneumoniae \u2022  Haemophilus influenzae \u2022  Staphylococcus aureus \u2022  Actinomyces israelii \u2022 Cytomegalovirus (CMV) \u2022 Coronavirus (Urbani  SARS-associated  coronavirus) \u2022 Measles \u2022 Herpes simplex \u2022 Varicella \u2022 Adenovirus =  severe acute respiratory syndrome) corona virus arising in the Guangdong province of  China, but which spread rapidly through Hong Kong  and Vietnam, and then throughout the world. Certain  occupations may be associated with exposure to specific  bacteria (p. 715). with lower lobe pneumonia or if there is associated  hepatitis. Less typical presentations may be seen in the  very young and the elderly. On examination, the respiratory and pulse rate may  be raised and the blood pressure low, while an assess- ment of the mental state may reveal a delirium. These  are important indicators of the severity of the illness  ( Fig. 19.33 ). Not all patients are pyrexial but this is   a helpful diagnostic clue if present. Oxygen saturation  on air may be low, and the patient cyanosed and  distressed. Chest signs (p. 645) vary, depending on the phase of  the inflammatory response. When consolidated, the  lung is typically dull to percussion and, as conduction  of sound is enhanced, auscultation reveals bronchial  breathing and whispering pectoriloquy; crackles are  heard throughout. However, in many patients, signs are  more subtle with reduced air entry only, but crackles   are usually present. An assessment of nutrition is important as, if poor,  the response to treatment will be impaired, particularly  in the elderly. On occasion, inferences as to the likely  organism may be drawn from clinical examination. For  example, the presence of herpes labialis may point to  streptococcal infection, as may the finding of \u2018rusty\u2019  sputum. The presence of poor dental hygiene should  prompt consideration of  Klebsiella  or  Actinomyces israelii .  The differential diagnosis of pneumonia is shown in   Box 19.43 .  Differential diagnosis of pneumonia \u2022 Pulmonary/pleural TB \u2022 Pulmonary oedema (can be unilateral) \u2022 Pulmonary eosinophilia (p. 713) \u2022 Malignancy: bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma \u2022 Rare disorders: cryptogenic organising pneumonia/ bronchiolitis obliterans organising pneumonia (COP/BOOP)   (p. 708) presents as an acute illness. Systemic features such as  fever, rigors, shivering and malaise predominate and  delirium may be present. The appetite is invariably lost  and headache frequently reported. Pulmonary symptoms include cough, which at first  is characteristically short, painful and dry, but later  accompanied by the expectoration of mucopurulent  sputum. Rust-coloured sputum may be seen in patients  with  Strep. pneumoniae , and the occasional individual  may report haemoptysis. Pleuritic chest pain may be a  presenting feature and, on occasion, may be referred   to the shoulder or anterior abdominal wall. Upper  abdominal tenderness is sometimes apparent in patients   \u2022 Confusion*  \u2022 Urea > 7 mmol/L  \u2022 Respiratory rate > 30/min  \u2022 Blood pressure (systolic < 90 mmHg or diastolic < 60 mmHg)  \u2022 Age > 65 years Score 1 point for each feature present 2 3 or more 0 or 1 Likely to be suitable for home treatment Manage in hospital as severe pneumonia Assess for ICU admission, especially if CURB-65 score = 4 or 5 Consider hospital-supervised treatment Options may include \u2022 Short-stay inpatient \u2022 Hospital-supervised outpatient Hospital CURB-65. *Defined as a Mental Test Score of 8 or less, or new disorientation in person, place or time. ( Urea of 7 mmol/L  \u2245 20 mg/dL.)  683 RespiRatoRy disease  Investigations in CAP Full blood count\u2022 Very high ( >  20  \u00d7  109/L) or low ( <  4  \u00d7  109/L) white cell  count: marker of severity \u2022 Neutrophil leucocytosis  >  15  \u00d7  109/L: suggests bacterial  aetiology MycoplasmaUrea and electrolytes\u2022 Urea  >  7 mmol/L (~20 mg/dL): marker of severity \u2022 Hyponatraemia: marker of severityLiver function tests\u2022 Abnormal if basal pneumonia inflames liver \u2022 Hypoalbuminaemia: marker of severityErythrocyte sedimentation rate/C-reactive protein\u2022 Non-specifically elevatedBlood culture\u2022 Bacteraemia: marker of severitySerology\u2022 Acute and convalescent titres for  Mycoplasma ,  Chlamydia ,  Legionella  and viral infections MycoplasmaArterial blood gases\u2022 Measure when  Sa O2<  93% or when severe clinical features  to assess ventilatory failure or acidosis Sputum samples\u2022 Gram stain (see  Fig. 19.32 ), culture and antimicrobial  sensitivity testing Mycoplasma pneumoniae  and other atypical  pathogens Legionella  antigen Pneumonia of the right middle lobe. A PA view:  consolidation in the right middle lobe with characteristic opacification  beneath the horizontal fissure and loss of normal contrast between the  right heart border and lung.  B Lateral view: consolidation confined to the  anteriorly situated middle lobe.  Lobar pneumonia\u2022 Patchy opacification evolves into homogeneous consolidation  of affected lobe \u2022 Air bronchogram (air-filled bronchi appear lucent against  consolidated lung tissue) may be present (see  Fig. 19.34 ) identification of the organism, a range of microbiological  tests should be performed on patients with severe CAP. genation, fluid balance and antibiotic therapy. In   severe or prolonged illness, nutritional support may be  required. pneumatocoeles and abscesses amounts, preferably with ultrasound guidance tachy pnoea, hypoxaemia, hypotension or acidosis, with  the aim of maintaining the  Pa O2 at or above 8 kPa  (60 mmHg) or the  Sa O2 at or above 92%. High concentra- tions (35% or more), preferably humidified, should be  used in all patients who do not have hypercapnia associ- ated with COPD. Continuous positive airway pressure  (CPAP) should be considered in those who remain  hypoxic despite this, and these patients should be  managed in a high-dependency or intensive care envi- ronment, where mechanical ventilation can be rapidly  Box 19.44 ) are to confirm the  diagnosis and exclude other conditions, assess the sever- ity and identify the development of complications.  Typical chest X-ray findings in a lobar pneumonia are  shown in  Figure 19.34 . Whilst many cases of mild to   Indications for referral to ITU 19.47  Complications of pneumonia management \u2022 Persisting hypoxia ( Pa O2<  8 kPa (60 mmHg)), despite high  concentrations of oxygen \u2022 Progressive hypercapnia \u2022 Severe acidosis \u2022 Circulatory shock \u2022 Reduced conscious level \u2022 Para-pneumonic effusion \u2013 common \u2022 Empyema (p. 662) \u2022 Retention of sputum causing lobar collapse \u2022 Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism \u2022 Pneumothorax, particularly with  Staph. aureus \u2022 Suppurative pneumonia/lung abscess \u2022 ARDS, renal failure, multi-organ failure ( p. 192 ) \u2022 Ectopic abscess formation ( Staph. aureus ) \u2022 Hepatitis, pericarditis, myocarditis, meningoencephalitis \u2022 Pyrexia due to drug hypersensitivity therapy unit (ITU) are summarised in  Box 19.45 . illness, older patients and those who are vomiting.   Otherwise, an adequate oral intake of fluid should   be encouraged. Inotropic support may be required   in patients with shock ( p. 190 ). some patients, opiates may be required but these must  be used with extreme caution in patients with poor res- piratory function, as they may suppress ventilation.  Physiotherapy is not usually indicated in patients with  CAP, but may help expectoration in those who suppress  cough because of pleural pain. Most patients respond promptly to antibiotic therapy.  However, fever may persist for several days and the  chest X-ray often takes several weeks or even months to  resolve, especially in old age. Delayed recovery suggests  either that a complication has occurred ( Box 19.47 ), that  the diagnosis is incorrect (see  Box 19.43 ) or, alterna- tively, that the pneumonia may be secondary to a proxi- mal bronchial obstruction or recurrent aspiration. The  mortality rate of adults with non-severe pneumonia is  very low ( <  1%); hospital death rates are typically  between 5 and 10% but may be as high as 50% in severe  illness. outcome. The initial choice of antibiotic is guided by  clinical context, severity assessment, local knowledge of  antibiotic resistance patterns and any available epi- demiological information. Current regimens are detailed  in  Box 19.46 . In most patients with uncomplicated pneu- monia, a 7-day course is adequate, although treatment  is usually required for longer in those with  Legionella ,  staphylococcal or  Klebsiella  pneumonia. Oral antibiotics  are usually adequate unless the patient has a severe  illness, impaired consciousness, loss of swallowing  reflex, or functional or anatomical reasons for  malabsorption. It is important to relieve pleural pain, as it may  prevent the patient from breathing normally and cough- ing efficiently. For the majority, simple analgesia with   Antibiotic treatment for CAP * their home circumstances and the likelihood of compli- cations. A chest X-ray need not be repeated before dis- charge in those making a satisfactory clinical recovery.  Clinical review should be arranged around 6 weeks later  and a chest X-ray obtained if there are persistent symp- toms, physical signs or reasons to suspect under lying  malignancy. or  Erythromycin  500 mg 4 times daily orally Staphylococcus  is cultured or suspected\u2022 Flucloxacillin 1\u20132 g 4 times daily IV  plus \u2022 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily IVIf  Mycoplasma  or  Legionella  is suspected\u2022 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily orally or IV  or Erythromycin 500 mg 4 times daily orally IV  plus and pneumococcal vaccination should be considered in  selected patients ( p. 148 ). Because of the mode of spread,  Legionella pneumophila  has important public health impli- cations and usually requires notification to the appropri- ate health authority. In developing countries, tackling  malnourishment and indoor air pollution, and encour- aging immunisation against measles, pertussis and  Hae- mophilus influenzae  type b are particularly important in  children. or  Erythromycin  500 mg 4 times daily IV  plus \u2022 Co-amoxiclav 1.2 g 3 times daily IV  or  Ceftriaxone 1\u20132 g  daily IV  or  Cefuroxime 1.5 g 3 times daily IV  or \u2022 Amoxicillin 1 g 4 times daily IV  plus  flucloxacillin 2 g 4 times  daily IV episode of pneumonia occurring at least 2 days after  admission to hospital. It is the second most common  hospital-acquired infection (HAI) and the leading cause  of HAI-associated death. The elderly are particularly at  risk, along with patients in intensive care units, espe- cially when mechanically ventilated; in the latter case,   Respiratory infection in old age  Factors predisposing to hospital-acquired  pneumonia Increased risk of and from respiratory infection : because  diabetes, malignancy) of reduced immune responses, increased closing volumes,  reduced respiratory muscle strength and endurance, altered  mucus layer, poor nutritional status and the increased  prevalence of chronic lung disease. \u2022  Predisposing factors : other medical conditions may  \u2022 Reduced cough reflex (e.g. post-operative) \u2022 Disordered mucociliary clearance (e.g. anaesthetic agents) \u2022 Bulbar or vocal cord palsy predispose to infection, e.g. swallowing difficulties due to  stroke increase the risk of aspiration pneumonia. \u2022  Atypical presentation : older patients often present with  \u2022 Vomiting, dysphagia (N.B. stroke disease), achalasia or  confusion, rather than breathlessness or cough. severe reflux \u2022  Mortality : the vast majority of deaths from pneumonia in  \u2022 Nasogastric intubation developed countries occur in older people. \u2022  Influenza : has a much higher complication rate, morbidity  and mortality. Vaccination significantly reduces morbidity and  mortality in old age but uptake is poor. \u2022  TB : most cases in old age represent reactivation of previous,  \u2022 Infected ventilators/nebulisers/bronchoscopes \u2022 Dental or sinus infection often unrecognised disease and may be precipitated by  steroid therapy, diabetes mellitus and the factors above.  Cryptic miliary TB is an occasional alternative presentation.  Older people more commonly suffer adverse effects from  antituberculous chemotherapy and require close monitoring. \u2022 IV cannula infection \u2022 Infected emboli (BAL) or endotracheal aspirates may be obtained. the term \u2018ventilator-associated pneumonia\u2019 (VAP) is  used. Healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP) is the  development of pneumonia in a person who has spent  at least 2 days in hospital within the last 90 days, or has  attended a haemodialysis unit, received intravenous  antibiotics, or been resident in a nursing home or other  long-term care facility. The factors predisposing to the  development of pneumonia in a hospitalised patient   are listed in  Box 19.48 . The organisms implicated in  early-onset HAP (occurring within 4\u20135 days of   admission) are similar to those involved in CAP. Late- onset HAP is associated with a different range of patho- gens to CAP, with more Gram-negative bacteria (e.g.  Escherichia ,  Pseudomonas ,  Klebsiella  species and  Acineto- bacter baumannii ),  Staph. aureus  (including the meticillin- resistant type (MRSA)) and anaerobes. CAP, focusing on adequate oxygenation, appropriate  fluid balance and antibiotics. However, the choice of  empirical antibiotic therapy is considerably more chal- lenging, given the diversity of pathogens and the poten- tial for drug resistance. In early-onset HAP, patients who have received no  previous antibiotics can be treated with co-amoxiclav or  cefuroxime. If the patient has received a course of recent  antibiotics, then piperacillin/tazobactam or a third- generation cephalosporin should be considered. In late-onset HAP, the choice of antibiotics must  cover the Gram-negative bacteria (see above),  Staph.  aureus (including  MRSA)  and  anaerobes.  Anti- pseudomonal cover may be provided by a carbapenem  (meropenem) or a third-generation cephalosporin com- bined with an aminoglycoside. MRSA cover may be  provided by glycopeptides, such as vancomycin or lin- ezolid.  A. baumannii  is usually sensitive to carbapenems  but resistant cases may require the prolonged adminis- tration of nebulised colistin. The choice of agents is most  appropriately guided by knowledge of local patterns of  microbiology and antibiotic resistance. It is usual to  commence broad-based cover, discontinuing less appro- priate antibiotics as culture results become available. In  the absence of good evidence, the duration of antibiotic  therapy remains a matter for clinical judgement. Physiotherapy is important to aid expectoration in  the immobile and elderly, and nutritional support is  often required. HAP is approximately 30%, so prevention is very impor- tant. Good hygiene is paramount, particularly with  or ventilated patient who develops purulent sputum (or  endotracheal secretions), new radiological infiltrates, an  otherwise unexplained increase in oxygen requirement,  a core temperature of more than 38.3\u00b0C, and a leuco- cytosis or leucopenia. However, the clinical features and  radiographic signs are variable and non-specific, raising  a broad differential diagnosis that includes venous  thromboembolism, ARDS, pulmonary oedema, pulmo- nary haemorrhage and drug toxicity. Therefore, in con- trast to CAP, microbiological confirmation should be  sought whenever possible. As in CAP, the full blood  count (FBC), urea and electrolytes (U&E), erythrocyte  sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP),  and arterial blood gas samples should be sent for analy- sis and a chest X-ray performed, but other investigations  and imaging may be necessary to exclude other condi- tions. Adequate sputum samples may be difficult   to obtain in frail elderly patients and physiotherapy  should be considered to aid expectoration. In patients  who are mechanically ventilated, bronchoscopy-directed   Clinical features of suppurative pneumonia blood-stained \u2022 Pleural pain common \u2022 Sudden expectoration of copious amounts of foul sputum if  abscess ruptures into a bronchus risk of aspiration should be minimised, and the use of  stress ulcer prophylaxis with proton pump inhibitors  limited, as they may increase the risk of ventilator- associated pneumonia. Oral antiseptic (chlorhexidine  2%) may be used to decontaminate the upper airway,  and some intensive care units employ selective decon- tamination of the digestive tract when the anticipated  requirement for ventilation will exceed 48 hours. \u2022 Profound systemic upset \u2022 Digital clubbing may develop quickly (10\u201314 days) \u2022 Consolidation on chest examination; signs of cavitation rarely  found \u2022 Pleural rub common \u2022 Rapid deterioration in general health, with marked weight  loss if not adequately treated exogenous lipid pneumonia \u2013 may follow the aspiration  of animal, vegetable, or mineral oils. The clinical features of suppurative pneumonia are  summarised in  Box 19.50 . homogeneous lobar or segmental opacity consistent  with consolidation or collapse. Abscesses are character- ised by cavitation and fluid level. Occasionally, a pre- existing emphysematous bulla becomes infected and  appears as a cavity containing an air\u2013fluid level. Aspiration pneumonia can be treated with intra- pneumonia and pulmonary abscessThese conditions are considered together, as their   aetiology and clinical features overlap. Suppurative  pneumonia is characterised by destruction of the lung  parenchyma by the inflammatory process and, although  microabscess formation is a characteristic histological  feature, \u2018pulmonary abscess\u2019 is usually taken to refer to  lesions in which there is a large localised collection of  pus, or a cavity lined by chronic inflammatory tissue,  from which pus has escaped by rupture into a  bronchus. Suppurative pneumonia and pulmonary abscess  often develop after the inhalation of septic material  during operations on the nose, mouth or throat under  general anaesthesia, or of vomitus during anaesthesia or  coma, particularly if oral hygiene is poor. Additional  risk factors for aspiration pneumonia include bulbar or  vocal cord palsy, stroke, achalasia or oesophageal reflux,  and alcoholism. Aspiration tends to localise to depend- ent areas of the lung, such as the apical segment of the  lower lobe in a supine patient. Suppurative pneumonia  and pulmonary abscess may also complicate local bron- chial obstruction from a neoplasm or foreign body. Infections are usually due to a mixture of anaerobes  and aerobes in common with the typical flora encoun- tered in the mouth and upper respiratory tract. Isolates  of  Bacteroides melaninogenicus ,  Fusobacterium necrophorum ,  anaerobic or micro-aerophilic cocci, and  Bacteroides fragi- lis  may be identified. When suppurative pneumonia or  a pulmonary abscess occurs in a previously healthy  lung, the most likely infecting organism is  Staph. aureus or  Klebsiella pneumoniae . Bacterial infection of a pulmonary infarct or a col- venous co-amoxiclav 1.2 g 3 times daily. If an anaerobic  bacterial infection is suspected (e.g. from fetor of the  sputum), oral metronidazole 400 mg 3 times daily  should be added. Further modification of antibiotics  may be required, depending on the clinical response and  the microbiological results. CA-MRSA is usually suscep- tible to a variety of oral non- \u03b2 -lactam antibiotics, such  as trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, clindamycin, tetra- cyclines and linezolid. Parenteral therapy with vanco- mycin or daptomycin can also be considered.  F.  necrophorum  is highly susceptible to  \u03b2 -lactam antibiotics,  and to metronidazole, clindamycin and third-generation  cephalosporins. Prolonged treatment for 4\u20136 weeks may  be required in some patients with lung abscess. Physio- therapy is of great value, especially when suppuration  is present in the lower lobes or when a large abscess  cavity has formed. In most patients, there is a good response to treat- ment and, although residual fibrosis and bronchiectasis  are common sequelae, these seldom give rise to serious  morbidity. Surgery should be contemplated if no  improvement occurs, despite optimal medical therapy.  Removal or treatment of any obstructing endobronchial  lesion is essential. lapsed lobe may also produce a suppurative pneumonia  or lung abscess. The organisms isolated from the sputum  include  Strep. pneumoniae ,  Staph. aureus ,  Strep. pyogenes ,  H .  influenzae  and, in some cases, anaerobic bacteria. In  many cases, however, no pathogen can be isolated, par- ticularly when antibiotics have been given. Strains of community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA)  produce the cytotoxin Panton\u2013Valentine leukocidin. The  organism is mainly responsible for suppurative skin  infection but may be associated with rapidly progres- sive, severe, necrotising pneumonia. Lemierre\u2019s syndrome is a rare cause of pulmonary  abscesses. The usual causative agent is the anaerobe,  F.  necrophorum . The illness typically commences as a sore  throat, painful swollen neck, fever, rigor, haemoptysis  and dyspnoea, and spread into the jugular veins leads  to thrombosis and metastatic spread of the organisms. Injecting drug-users are at particular risk of develop- immunocompromised patientPatients immunocompromised by drugs or disease   (particularly HIV,  p. 400 ) are at high risk of pulmonary  infection. The majority of cases are caused by   the  same  pathogens  that  cause  pneumonia  in   ing haematogenous lung abscess, often in association  with endocarditis affecting the pulmonary and tricuspid  valves. N. asteroides ,  mycobacteria and fungi.  Causes of immune suppression-associated  lung infection Infecting organisms  (see  Fig. 19.45 , p. 698). \u2022 Pleural effusions suggest a pyogenic bacterial  infection and are uncommon in  P. jirovecii  pneumonia. phagocytic  function Acute leukaemia Cytotoxic drugs Agranulocytosis Gram-positive bacteria,  including  Staph.  aureus Gram-negative bacteria Fungi, e.g.  Candida  albicans  and  Aspergillus fumigatus Defects in  cell-mediated  immunity Immunosuppressive  drugs Cytotoxic  chemotherapy Lymphoma Thymic aplasia causative organism but, in practice, this is frequently  unknown and broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is  required, such as a third-generation cephalosporin or a  quinolone, plus an antistaphylococcal antibiotic, or an  antipseudomonal penicillin plus an aminoglycoside. Thereafter, treatment may be tailored according to  the results of investigations and the clinical response.  These may dictate the addition of antifungal or antiviral  therapies. The management of  P. jirovecii  infection is  detailed on  page 400 , and that of invasive aspergillosis  on page 698. Cytomegalovirus Herpesvirus Adenovirus Influenza Fungi Pneumocystis  jirovecii  (formerly  carinii ) Candida albicans Aspergillus fumigatus antibody  production Multiple myeloma Chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia Haemophilus  influenzae Mycoplasma  pneumoniae with more profound immunosuppression, unusual  organisms or those normally considered to be of low  virulence or non-pathogenic may become \u2018opportunis- tic\u2019 pathogens ( Box 19.51 ). Therefore, the possibility of  Gram-negative bacteria, especially  Pseudomonas aerugi- nosa , viral agents, fungi, mycobacteria, and less common  organisms such as  Nocardia asteroides  has to be consid- ered. Infection is often due to more than one organism. Mycobacte- rium tuberculosis  (MTB), which is part of a complex of  organisms including  M. bovis  (reservoir cattle) and  M.  africanum  (reservoir human). Recent figures suggest a  decline in the incidence of TB, but its impact on world  health remains significant. In 2010, an estimated   8.8 million incident cases occurred and TB was esti- mated to account for nearly 1.5 million deaths, making  it the second most common cause of death due to an  infective disease. Furthermore, it is estimated that  around one-third of the world\u2019s population has latent  TB. The majority of cases occur in the world\u2019s poorest  nations, who struggle to cover the costs associated with  management and control programmes ( Fig. 19.35 ). In  Africa, the resurgence of TB has been largely driven by  HIV disease and, in the former Soviet Union and Baltic  states, by a lack of appropriate health care associated  with social and political upheaval. but are influenced by the degree of immunosuppression;  symptoms are less specific in the more profoundly  immunosuppressed. The speed of onset tends to be less  rapid in patients with opportunistic organisms such as  Pneumocystis jirovecii  and mycobacterial infections than  with bacterial infections ( p. 400 ). In  P. jirovecii  pneumo- nia, symptoms of cough and breathlessness can be  present for several days or weeks before the onset of  systemic symptoms or the appearance of X-ray abnor- malities. The clinical features of invasive pulmonary  aspergillosis are described on page 698. severity of the illness. Invasive investigations, such as  bronchoscopy, BAL, transbronchial biopsy or surgical  lung biopsy, are often impractical, as many patients are  too ill to undergo these safely. However, \u2018induced  sputum\u2019 (p. 652) offers a relatively safe method of  obtaining microbiological samples. HRCT is useful in  differentiating the likely cause: \u2022 Focal unilateral airspace opacification favours  bacterial infection, mycobacteria or  Nocardia . P. jirovecii pneumonia, fungi, viruses and unusual bacteria, e.g.  Nocardia .  infection arises from drinking non-sterilised  milk from infected cows.  M. tuberculosis  is spread by the  inhalation of aerosolised droplet nuclei from other  infected patients. Once inhaled, the organisms lodge in  the alveoli and initiate the recruitment of macrophages  and lymphocytes. Macrophages undergo transforma- tion into epithelioid and Langhans cells, which aggre- gate with the lymphocytes to form the classical  tuberculous granuloma ( Fig. 19.36 ). Numerous granulo- mas aggregate to form a primary lesion or \u2018Ghon focus\u2019  (a pale yellow, caseous nodule, usually a few millimetres  to 1\u20132 cm in diameter), which is characteristically situ- ated in the periphery of the lung. Spread of organisms  to the hilar lymph nodes is followed by a similar patho- logical reaction, and the combination of the primary  lesion and regional lymph nodes is referred to as the  \u2018primary complex of Ranke\u2019. Reparative processes  encase the primary complex in a fibrous capsule, limit- ing the spread of bacilli: so-called latent TB (p. 695). If  no further complications ensue, this lesion eventually  25\u201349 0\u201324 50\u201399 100\u2013299 \u2265  300 No estimate Worldwide incidence of tuberculosis. Estimated new cases (all forms) per 100 000 population (WHO). From Maartens and Wilkinson  2007 \u2013 see p. 732. 1 4 3 Tuberculous granuloma. Normal lung tissue is lost and  replaced by a mass of fibrous tissue with granulomatous inflammation  characterised by large numbers of macrophages and multinucleate giant  cells (white arrow). The central area of this focus shows caseous  degeneration (black arrow).  Primary pulmonary TB. (1) Spread from the primary focus  to hilar and mediastinal lymph glands to form the \u2018primary complex\u2019, which  in most cases heals spontaneously. (2) Direct extension of the primary  focus \u2013 progressive pulmonary TB. (3) Spread to the pleura \u2013 tuberculous  pleurisy and pleural effusion. (4) Blood-borne spread:  few bacilli \u2013 pulmonary, skeletal, renal, genitourinary infection, often months or years  later;  massive spread  \u2013 miliary TB and meningitis.  only occurs if there is a hypersensitivity reaction or   progressive infection ( Box 19.54 ). Progressive primary  disease may appear during the course of the initial  illness or after a latent period of weeks or months. calcifies and is clearly seen on a chest X-ray. However,  lymphatic or haematogenous spread may occur before  immunity is established, seeding secondary foci in other  organs, including lymph nodes, serous membranes,  meninges, bones, liver, kidneys and lungs, which may  lie dormant for years. The only clue that infection has  occurred may be the appearance of a cell-mediated,  delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to tuberculin,  demonstrated by tuberculin skin testing. If these repara- tive processes fail, primary progressive disease ensues  ( Fig. 19.37 ). The estimated lifetime risk of developing  disease after primary infection is 10%, with roughly half  of this risk occurring in the first 2 years after infection.  Factors predisposing to TB are summarised in  Box 19.52 and the natural history of infection with TB is summa- rised in  Box 19.53 . fected (tuberculin-negative) individual. A few patients  which may present acutely but more frequently is char- acterised by 2\u20133 weeks of fever, night sweats, anorexia,  weight loss and a dry cough. Hepatospleno megaly may  develop and the presence of a headache may indicate  coexistent tuberculous meningitis. Auscultation of the  chest is frequently normal, but in more advanced  disease, widespread crackles are evident. Fundoscopy  may show choroidal tubercles. The classical appearances  on chest X-ray are of fine 1\u20132 mm lesions (\u2018millet seed\u2019)  distributed throughout the lung fields, although occa- sionally the appearances are coarser. Anaemia and   Factors increasing the risk of TB 19.55  Cryptic TB \u2022 Intermittent low-grade pyrexia of unknown origin \u2022 Unexplained weight loss, general debility  (hepatosplenomegaly in 25\u201350%) >  young adults  <  elderly) \u2022 First-generation immigrants from high-prevalence countries \u2022 Close contacts of patients with smear-positive pulmonary TB \u2022 Overcrowding (prisons, collective dormitories); homelessness  (doss houses and hostels) \u2022 Normal chest X-ray \u2022 Blood dyscrasias; leukaemoid reaction, pancytopenia \u2022 Negative tuberculin skin test \u2022 Confirmation by biopsy with granulomas and/or acid-fast  bacilli in liver or bone marrow \u2022 Chest X-ray evidence of self-healed TB \u2022 Primary infection  <  1 yr previously \u2022 Smoking: cigarettes and bidis (Indian cigarettes made of  tobacco wrapped in temburini leaves) therapy, high-dose corticosteroids, cytotoxic agents miliary TB is an unusual presentation sometimes seen in  old age ( Box 19.55 ). \u2022 Diabetes mellitus \u2022 Chronic kidney disease \u2022 Silicosis \u2022 Gastrointestinal disease associated with malnutrition  (gastrectomy, jejuno-ileal bypass, cancer of the pancreas,  malabsorption) \u2022 Deficiency of vitamin D or A \u2022 Recent measles in children  Natural history of untreated primary TB Manifestations Primary complex, positive tuberculin  skin test 3\u20136 mths Meningeal, miliary and pleural disease Up to 3 yrs Gastrointestinal, bone and joint, and  lymph node disease Around 8 yrs Renal tract disease From 3 yrs onwards Post-primary disease due to  reactivation or re-infection tion) or endogenous (reactivation of a dormant primary  lesion) infection in a person who has been sensitised by  earlier exposure. It is most frequently pulmonary and  characteristically occurs in the apex of an upper lobe,  where the oxygen tension favours survival of the strictly  aerobic organism. The onset is usually insidious, devel- oping slowly over several weeks. Systemic symptoms  include fever, night sweats, malaise, and loss of appetite  and weight, and are accompanied by progressive pul- monary symptoms ( Box 19.56 ). Very occasionally, this  form of TB may present with one of the complications  listed in  Box 19.57 . Radiological changes include ill- defined opacification in one or both of the upper lobes,  and as progression occurs, consolidation, collapse and  cavitation develop to varying degrees ( Fig. 19.38 ). It is  often difficult to distinguish active from quiescent  disease on radiological criteria alone, but the presence  of a miliary pattern or cavitation favours active disease.  In extensive disease, collapse may be marked and results  in significant displacement of the trachea and mediasti- num. Occasionally, a caseous lymph node may drain  into an adjoining bronchus, leading to tuberculous  pneumonia. Hodder Arnold; 1998. cases in those who are HIV-negative but is more common  in HIV-positive individuals.  Features of primary TB \u2022 Primary complex \u2022 Skin test conversion (often unilateral),  paratracheal or mediastinal \u2022 Collapse (especially right  middle lobe) \u2022 Obstructive emphysema \u2022 Cavitation (rare) \u2022 Pleural effusion \u2022 Miliary \u2022 Meningitis \u2022 Pericarditis \u2022 Consolidation (especially  right middle lobe) \u2022 Dactylitis \u2022 Phlyctenular conjunctivitis site of disease. Cervical and mediastinal glands are  affected most frequently, followed by axillary and  inguinal, and more than one region may be involved.  Disease may represent primary infection, spread from  contiguous sites, or reactivation. Supraclavicular lym- phadenopathy is often the result of spread from medi- astinal disease. The nodes are usually painless and  initially mobile but become matted together with time.  When caseation and liquefaction occur, the swelling  becomes fluctuant and may discharge through the skin  with the formation of a \u2018collar-stud\u2019 abscess and sinus  formation. Approximately half of cases fail to show   any constitutional features, such as fevers or night  sweats. The tuberculin test is usually strongly positive.  During or after treatment, paradoxical enlargement,   Clinical presentations of pulmonary TB \u2022 Asymptomatic (diagnosis  haemoptysis on chest X-ray) \u2022 Weight loss, general  debility Differential diagnosis \u2022 Pneumonia/lung abscess \u2022 Lung cancer \u2022 Pulmonary infarct \u2022 Granulomatosis with polyangiitis    (Wegener\u2019s granulomatosis) \u2022 Progressive massive fibrosis \u2022 Unresolved pneumonia \u2022 Exudative pleural effusion \u2022 Spontaneous pneumothorax Differential diagnosis \u2022 Pneumonia \u2022 Bronchial carcinoma \u2022 Pulmonary infarct  Chronic complications of pulmonary TB \u2022 Cor pulmonale \u2022 Fibrosis/emphysema \u2022 Atypical mycobacterial  infection \u2022 Aspergilloma \u2022 Lung/pleural calcification \u2022 Obstructive airways disease \u2022 Bronchiectasis \u2022 Bronchopleural fistula \u2022 Laryngitis \u2022 Enteritis * \u2022 Anorectal disease * \u2022 Amyloidosis \u2022 Poncet\u2019s polyarthritis Differential diagnosis \u2022 Bacterial pneumonia \u2022 Pulmonary infarction \u2022 Carcinoma  \u2022 Connective tissue disorder \u2018Miliary\u2019 diffuse shadowing Differential diagnosis \u2022 Sarcoidosis \u2022 Malignancy \u2022 Pneumoconiosis \u2022 Infection (e.g. histoplasmosis  infection) icteric, with a mixed hepatic/cholestatic picture. Chest X-ray: major manifestations and differential  diagnosis of pulmonary TB. Less common manifestations include  pneumothorax, ARDS ( p. 192 ), cor pulmonale and localised emphysema.  occur but without evidence of continued infection; sur- gical excision is rarely necessary. In non-immigrant chil- dren in the UK, most mycobacterial lymphadenitis is  caused by opportunistic mycobacteria, especially of the  M. avium  complex. Fig. 19.39  and  p. 639 ):  pericardial effusion and constrictive pericarditis. Fever  and night sweats are rarely prominent and the presenta- tion is usually insidious, with breathlessness and  abdominal swelling. Coexistent pulmonary disease is  very rare, with the exception of pleural effusion. Pulsus  paradoxus, a raised JVP, hepatomegaly, prominent  ascites and peripheral oedema are common to both  types. Pericardial effusion is associated with increased  pericardial dullness and a globular enlarged heart on  chest X-ray, and pericardial calcification occurs in  around 25% of cases. Constriction is associated with   an early third heart sound and, occasionally, atrial   fibrillation. Diagnosis is based on the clinical, radiologi- cal and echocardiographic findings ( p. 640 ). The   effusion is frequently blood-stained. Open pericardial  biopsy can be performed where there is diagnostic  uncertainty. The addition of corticosteroids to anti- tuberculosis treatment has been shown to help both  forms of pericardial disease. of central nervous system TB. Unrecognised and  untreated, it is rapidly fatal. Even when appropriate  treatment is prescribed, mortality rates of 30% have been  reported, whilst survivors may be left with neurological  sequelae. Clinical features, investigations and manage- ment are described on  page 1204 . disease), which usually presents with chronic back pain  and typically involves the lower thoracic and lumbar  present with a wide range of symptoms and signs ( Fig. 19.39 ). Upper gastrointestinal tract involvement is rare  and is usually an unexpected histological finding in an  endoscopic or laparotomy specimen. Ileocaecal disease  accounts for approximately half of abdominal TB cases.  Fever, night sweats, anorexia and weight loss are usually  prominent and a right iliac fossa mass may be palpable.  Up to 30% of cases present with an acute abdomen.  Ultrasound or CT may reveal thickened bowel wall,  abdominal lymphadenopathy, mesenteric thickening or  ascites. Barium enema and small bowel enema reveal  narrowing, shortening and distortion of the bowel, with  caecal involvement predominating. Diagnosis rests on  obtaining histology by either colonoscopy or mini- laparotomy. The main differential diagnosis is Crohn\u2019s  disease ( p. 897 ). Tuberculous peritonitis is characterised  by abdominal distension, pain and constitutional symp- toms. The ascitic fluid is exudative and cellular, with a  predominance of lymphocytes. Laparoscopy reveals  multiple white \u2018tubercles\u2019 over the peritoneal and  omental surfaces. Low-grade hepatic dysfunction is  common in miliary disease, in which biopsy reveals  Lymph node enlargement Headache, vomiting, seizures, confusion Lymphocytic meningitis Hydrocephalus Space-occupying lesion (tuberculoma) Pericardial effusion Constrictive pericarditis Chronic back pain Exudative ascites Kyphosis Cord compression Mesenteric adenitis Intestinal obstruction Abdominal mass Haematuria/dysuria Infertility in women Epididymitis Psoas abscess Monoarthritis Anorectal ulceration General observation Weight loss Fever Night sweats Systemic presentations of extrapulmonary TB. Fig. 19.40 Typical changes of tuberculosis. The chest X-ray shows  bilateral upper lobe airspace shadowing with cavitation.  Fig. 19.39 ). The infection starts as a discitis and  then spreads along the spinal ligaments to involve the  adjacent anterior vertebral bodies, causing angulation of  the vertebrae with subsequent kyphosis. Paravertebral  and psoas abscess formation is common and the disease  may present with a large (cold) abscess in the inguinal  region. CT or MRI is valuable in gauging the extent of  disease, the amount of cord compression, and the site  for needle biopsy or open exploration, if required. The  major differential diagnosis is malignancy, which tends  to affect the vertebral body and leave the disc intact.  Important complications include spinal instability or  cord compression. TB can affect any joint but most frequently involves  the hip or knee. Presentation is usually insidious, with  pain and swelling; fever and night sweats are uncom- mon. Radiological changes are often non-specific but,   as disease progresses, reduction in joint space and ero- sions appear. Poncet\u2019s arthropathy is an immunologi- cally mediated polyarthritis that usually resolves within  2 months of starting treatment. more than 2\u20133 weeks, particularly in regions where TB  is prevalent, or typical chest X-ray changes ( Fig. 19.40 ),  should prompt further investigation ( Box 19.58 ). Direct  microscopy of sputum remains the most important first  step. The probability of detecting acid-fast bacilli is pro- portional to the bacillary burden in the sputum (typi- cally positive when 5000\u201310 000 organisms are present).  By virtue of their substantial, lipid-rich wall, tubercu- lous bacilli are difficult to stain. The most effective   patients are often only mildly symptomatic for many  years. Haematuria, frequency and dysuria are often  present, with sterile pyuria found on urine microscopy  and culture. In women, infertility from endometritis, or  pelvic pain and swelling from salpingitis or a tubo- ovarian abscess occurs occasionally. In men, genito- urinary TB may present as epididymitis or prostatitis.  Diagnosis of TB to a broad-spectrum antibiotic. MTB grows slowly and may take between 4 and   Pulmonary\u2022 Sputum *  (induced with nebulised hypertonic saline if not  expectorating) \u2022 Bronchoscopy with washings or BAL \u2022 Gastric washing *  (mainly used for children)Extrapulmonary\u2022 Fluid examination (cerebrospinal, ascitic, pleural, pericardial,  joint): yield classically very low \u2022 Tissue biopsy (from affected site): bone marrow/liver may be  diagnostic in disseminated disease primary or deep-seated infection \u2022 Stain Ziehl\u2013Neelsen Auramine fluorescence \u2022 Nucleic acid amplification \u2022 Culture Liquid media (e.g. BACTEC or MGIT) \u2022 Pleural fluid: adenosine deaminase \u2022 Response to empirical antituberculous drugs (usually seen  after 5\u201310 days) (BAL  =  bronchoalveolar lavage; MGIT  =  mycobacteria growth indicator tube) Jensen or Middlebrook. Faster growth (1\u20133 weeks)  occurs in liquid media, such as the radioactive BACTEC  system or the non-radiometric mycobacteria growth  indicator tube (MGIT). The BACTEC method is the most  widely accepted as the reference standard in developed  nations and detects mycobacterial growth by measuring  the liberation of 14CO2, following metabolism of 14C- labelled substrate present in the medium. Drug sensitivity testing is particularly important in  those with a previous history of TB, treatment failure   or chronic disease, and in those who are resident in or  have visited an area of high prevalence of resistance, or  who are HIV-positive. The detection of rifampicin resist- ance, using molecular tools to test for the presence of the  rpo  gene currently associated with around 95% of  rifampicin-resistant cases, is important, as rifampicin  forms the cornerstone of 6-month chemotherapy. Nucleic acid amplification tests, such as the Xpert/ RIF test, combine the potential to diagnose TB and detect  the presence of rifampicin resistance, and may become  the test of first choice in individuals with HIV or those  suspected to have multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis  (MDR-TB). If a cluster of cases suggests a common  source, confirmation may be sought by fingerprinting of  isolates with restriction-fragment length polymorphism  (RFLP). The diagnosis of extrapulmonary TB can be more  challenging. There are generally fewer organisms (par- ticularly in meningeal or pleural fluid), so culture or  histopathological examination of tissue is more impor- tant. Adenosine deaminase in pleural fluid, and to a  lesser extent in CSF, may assist in confirming suspected  TB. In the presence of HIV, examination of sputum may  still be useful, as subclinical pulmonary disease is  common. Positive Ziehl\u2013Neelsen stain. Mycobacteria retain the red  carbol fuchsin stain, despite washing with acid and alcohol.  693 Fig. 19.41 ) and  rhodamine\u2013auramine. The latter causes the tuberculous  bacilli to fluoresce against a dark background and is  easier to use when numerous specimens need to be  examined; however, it is more complex and expensive,  limiting use in resource-poor regions. A positive smear is sufficient for the presumptive  diagnosis of TB but definitive diagnosis requires culture.  Smear-negative sputum should also be cultured, as only  10\u2013100 viable organisms are required for sputum to be  culture-positive. A diagnosis of smear-negative TB may  be made in advance of culture if the chest X-ray  intensive phase to reduce the bacterial population  rapidly, followed by a continuation phase to destroy any  remaining bacteria ( Box 19.59 ). Standard treatment  involves 6 months\u2019 treatment with isoniazid and  rifampicin, supplemented in the first 2 months with  pyrazinamide and ethambutol. Fixed-dose tablets com- bining two or three drugs are preferred. Treatment  should be commenced immediately in any patient who  is smear-positive, or smear-negative but with typical  chest X-ray changes and no response to standard  antibiotics. Six months of therapy is appropriate for all patients  with new-onset pulmonary TB and most cases of  extrapulmonary TB. However, 12 months of therapy is  recommended for meningeal TB, including involvement  of the spinal cord in cases of spinal TB; in these cases,  ethambutol may be replaced by streptomycin. Pyridox- ine should be prescribed in pregnant women and mal- nourished patients to reduce the risk of peripheral  neuropathy with isoniazid. Where drug resistance is not  anticipated, patients can be assumed to be non-infectious  after 2 weeks of appropriate therapy.  Treatment of new TB patients (World Health Organization recommendations) Continuation phase Comments Standard regimen2 mths of HRZE 4 mths of HR 2 mths of HRZE 4 mths of HRE Applies only in countries with high levels of isoniazid resistance in new TB patients, and  where isoniazid drug susceptibility testing in new patients is not done (or results are  unavailable) before the continuation phase begins * Daily Optimal Daily * 3 times/wk Acceptable alternative for any new patient receiving directly observed therapy 3 times/wk 3 times/wk Acceptable alternative, provided that the patient is receiving directly observed therapy and is  NOT living with HIV or living in an HIV-prevalent setting resistance. (H  =  isoniazid; R  =  rifampicin; Z  =  pyrazinamide; E  =  ethambutol) Adapted from WHO Treatment of Tuberculosis Guidelines, 4th edn.  Main adverse reactions of first-line antituberculous drugs Rifampicin Pyrazinamide Streptomycin Ethambutol Cell wall synthesis DNA transcription Unknown Protein synthesis Cell wall synthesis Retrobulbar neuritis3 reactions Peripheral  neuropathy1 Rash Arthralgia Hepatitis2 Gastrointestinal  disturbance Hyperuricaemia Rash Febrile reactions Hepatitis Rash Gastrointestinal  disturbance Nephrotoxicity Agranulocytosis Peripheral neuropathy Rash Less common  adverse reactions Rash Photosensitisation Gout Lupoid reactions Seizures Psychoses Interstitial nephritis Thrombocytopenia Haemolytic anaemia vision may be reported with higher doses and are usually reversible. streptomycin, ethambutol and fluoroquinolone. Corticosteroids reduce inflammation and limit tissue  damage, and are currently recommended when treating  pericardial or meningeal disease, and in children with  endobronchial disease. They may confer benefit in TB of  the ureter, pleural effusions and extensive pulmonary  disease, and can suppress hypersensitivity drug reac- tions. Surgery should be considered in cases compli- cated by massive haemoptysis, loculated empyema,  constrictive pericarditis, lymph node suppuration, and  spinal disease with cord compression, but usually only  after a full course of antituberculosis treatment. The effectiveness of therapy for pulmonary TB is  assessed by further sputum smear at 2 months and at   5 months. Treatment failure is defined as a positive  sputum smear or culture at 5 months or any patient   with a multidrug resistant strain, regardless of whether  they are smear-positive or negative. Extrapulmonary  TB must be assessed clinically or radiographically,   as appropriate. a hospital unit with appropriate isolation facilities  should be considered where there is uncertainty about  the diagnosis, intolerance of medication, questionable  treatment adherence, adverse social conditions or a sig- nificant risk of MDR-TB (culture-positive after 2 months  on treatment, or contact with known MDR-TB). Patients treated with rifampicin should be advised  that their urine, tears and other secretions will develop  a bright orange/red coloration, and women taking the  oral contraceptive pill must be warned that its efficacy  will be reduced and alternative contraception may   be necessary. Ethambutol and streptomycin should   be used with caution in renal failure, with appropriate  dose reduction and monitoring of drug levels. Adverse  drug reactions occur in about 10% of patients, but   are significantly more common with HIV co-infection  ( Box 19.60 ). Baseline liver function and regular monitoring are  important for patients treated with standard therapy.  Rifampicin may cause asymptomatic hyperbilirubin- aemia but, along with isoniazid and pyrazinamide, may  also cause hepatitis. Mild asymptomatic increases in  transaminases are common but significant hepatotoxic- ity only occurs in 2\u20135%. It is appropriate to stop treat- ment and allow any symptoms to subside and the liver  function tests (LFTs) to recover before commencing a  stepwise re-introduction of the individual drugs. Less  reducing the incidence of TB by 2015. Supporting the  development of laboratory and health-care services to  improve detection and treatment of active and latent TB  is an important component of this goal. B T lymphocytes Whole blood Incubate in the presence of antigens specific to MTB Incubate in the presence of antigens specific to MTB IFN- \u03b3 released IFN- \u03b3 released IFN- \u03b3  binds to antibody on base of ELISPOT wells It has the potential to identify the probable index case,  other cases infected by the same index patient (with or  without evidence of disease), and close contacts who  should receive BCG vaccination (see below) or chemo- therapy. Approximately 10\u201320% of close contacts of  patients with smear-positive pulmonary TB and 2\u20135% of  those with smear-negative, culture-positive disease have  evidence of TB infection. Cases are commonly identified using the tuberculin  skin test ( Box 19.61  and  Fig 19.42 ). An otherwise asymp- tomatic contact with a positive tuberculin skin test but  a normal chest X-ray may be treated with chemoprophy- laxis to prevent infection from progressing to clinical  disease. Chemoprophylaxis is also recommended for  children aged less than 16 years identified during contact  tracing as having a strongly positive tuberculin test, chil- dren aged less than 2 years in close contact with smear- positive pulmonary disease, those in whom recent  removed and IFN- \u03b3  measured by ELISA Spots counted  Skin testing in TB: tests using purified  protein derivative (PPD) \u2022 Multipuncture method Fig. 19.43 The principles of interferon-gamma release assays.A sample of either purified T cells (T-SPOT.TB\u00ae test) or whole blood  (QuantiFERON\u00ae\u2013TB Gold test) is incubated in the presence of antigens  specific to  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (MTB). The release of interferon- gamma (IFN- \u03b3 ) by the cells is measured by enzyme-lined immunosorbent  assay (ELISA). (ELISPOT  =  enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay)  Grade 2: Confluent papules forming ring Grade 3: Central induration Grade 4:  >  10 mm induration \u2022 10 tuberculin units used Positive when induration 5\u201314 mm (equivalent to Heaf  grade 2) and  >  15 mm (Heaf grade 3\u20134) \u2022 Recent infection (e.g.  negative) measles) or immunisation \u2022 Newborn and elderly \u2022 HIV (if CD4 count   \u2022 Immunosuppressive drugs \u2022 Malignancy \u2022 Sarcoidosis <  200 cells/mL) \u2022 Malnutrition A mothers with pulmonary TB. It should also be consid- ered for HIV-infected close contacts of a patient with  smear-positive disease. A course of rifampicin and iso- niazid for 3 months or isoniazid for 6 months is  effective. Tuberculin skin testing may be associated with false- positive reactions in those who have had a BCG vaccina- tion and in areas where exposure to non-tuberculous  mycobacteria is high. The skin tests may also be falsely  negative in the setting of immunosuppression or over- whelming infection. These limitations may be overcome  by employing interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs)  ( Fig. 19.43 ). These tests measure the release of IFN- \u03b3 from sensitised T cells in response to antigens, such as  early secretory antigenic target (ESAT)-6 or culture fil- trate protein (CFP)-10, that are encoded by genes specific  to the MTB and are not shared with BCG or opportun- istic mycobacteria. The greater specificity of these tests,  combined with the logistical convenience of one blood  test, as opposed to two visits for skin testing, suggests  that IGRAs will replace the tuberculin skin test in low- incidence, high-income countries. C E Gradings of the Heaf test response. A Negative.B Grade 1.  C Grade 2.  D Grade 3.  E Grade 4.  illness, risk of relapse, and the emergence of drug resist- ance. Directly observed therapy (DOT) involves the  supervised administration of therapy 3 times weekly to  improve adherence. DOT has become an important  control strategy in resource-poor nations. In the UK, it  is currently recommended for patients thought unlikely  to be adherent to therapy: homeless people and drifters,  alcohol or drug users, patients with serious mental  illness and those with a history of non-compliance. an average of 2 years; in 1 year, 25% of untreated cases  will die. Death is more likely in those who are smear- positive and those who smoke. A few patients die unex- pectedly soon after commencing therapy and it is  possible that some have subclinical hypoadrenalism that  is unmasked by a rifampicin-induced increase in steroid  metabolism. HIV-positive patients have higher mortal- ity rates and a modestly increased risk of relapse. Saharan Africa, and the potential for both diseases to  overwhelm health-care funding in resource-poor nations  have been recognised, with the promotion of pro- grammes that link detection and treatment of TB with  detection and treatment of HIV. It is recommended that  all patients with TB should be tested for HIV disease.  Mortality is high and TB is a leading cause of death in  HIV patients. Full discussion of its presentation and  management is given on  page 400 . ance to any first-line agent. Multidrug-resistant TB  (MDR-TB) is defined by resistance to at least rifampicin  and isoniazid, with or without other drug resistance.  Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) is defined as  resistance to at least rifampicin and isoniazid, in addi- tion to any quinolone and at least one injectable second- line agent. The prevalence of MDR-TB is rising,  particularly in the former Soviet Union, Central Asia  and Africa. It is more common in those with a prior  history of TB, particularly if treatment has been inad- equate, and those with HIV infection.  Box 19.62  lists the  factors contributing to the emergence of drug-resistant  TB. Diagnosis is challenging, especially in developing  countries, and although cure may be possible, it requires  prolonged treatment with less effective, more toxic and  more expensive therapies. The mortality rate from  MDR-TB is high and that from XDR-TB higher still. infectionOther species of environmental mycobacteria (often  termed \u2018atypical\u2019) may cause human disease ( Box 19.63 ).  The sites commonly involved are the lungs, lymph  nodes, skin and soft tissues. The most widely recognised  of these mycobacteria,  M. avium  complex (MAC), is well  described in severe HIV disease (CD4 count  <  50 cells/ mL \u2013  p. 407 ). However, several others (including MAC)  colonise and/or infect apparently immunocompetent  patients with chronic lung diseases such as COPD, bron- chiectasis, pneumoconiosis, old TB, or cystic fibrosis.  The clinical presentation varies from a relatively indo- lent course in some to an aggressive course characterised  by cavitatory or nodular disease in others. Radiological  appearances may be similar to classical TB, but in  patients with bronchiectasis, opportunistic infection  may present with lower-zone nodules. The most com- monly reported organisms include  M. kansasii ,  M. mal- moense ,  M. xenopi  and  M. abscessus , but geographical  variation is marked.  M. abscessus  and  M. fortuitum  grow  rapidly but the majority grow slowly. More rapid diag- nostic systems are under development, including DNA  probes,  high-performance  liquid  chromatography  (HPLC), PCR restriction enzyme analysis (PRA) and 16S  rRNA gene sequence analysis. With the exception of  M.  kansasii , drug sensitivity testing is usually unhelpful in  predicting treatment response. There is usually no  requirement for notification, as the organisms are not  normally communicable.  Site-specific opportunistic  mycobacterial disease vaccine derived from  M. bovis , is the most established  TB vaccine. It is administered by intradermal injection  and is highly immunogenic. BCG appears to be effective  in preventing disseminated disease, including tubercu- lous meningitis, in children, but its efficacy in adults is  inconsistent and new vaccines are urgently needed.  Current vaccination policies vary worldwide according  to incidence and health-care resources, but usually  target children and other high-risk individuals. BCG is  very safe, with the occasional complication of local  abscess formation. It should not be administered to  those who are immunocompromised (e.g. by HIV) or  pregnant. M. xenopi \u2022  M. kansasii \u2022  M. malmoense \u2022 MAC \u2022  M. malmoense \u2022  M. fortuitum \u2022  M. chelonei should be anticipated in the majority of patients. There  is a small ( <  5%) and unavoidable risk of relapse. Most  relapses occur within 5 months and usually have the  same drug susceptibility. In the absence of treatment, a  M. leprae \u2022  M. ulcerans  (prevalent in  \u2022  M. marinum \u2022  M. fortuitum \u2022  M. chelonei Africa, northern Australia  and South-east Asia)  Factors contributing to the emergence of  drug-resistant TB \u2022  M. haemophilum \u2022  M. genavense \u2022  M. fortuitum \u2022  M. chelonei \u2022 BCG =  bacille Calmette\u2013Gu\u00e9rin; MAC  = Mycobacterium avium complex \u2013  M. scrofulaceum ,  M. intracellulare  and  M. avium ) \u2022 Poor-quality drugs \u2022 Lack of appropriate supervision \u2022 Transmission of drug-resistant strains \u2022 Prior anti-tuberculosis treatment \u2022 Treatment failure (smear-positive at 5 mths) Infections of the respiratory system   Features of allergic bronchopulmonary  aspergillosis less saprophytes but in certain circumstances ( Box 19.64 )  some species may cause disease by infecting human  tissue, promoting damaging allergic reactions or pro- ducing toxins. \u2018Mycosis\u2019 is the term applied to disease  caused by fungal infection. \u2022 Proximal bronchiectasis (inner two-thirds of chest CT field) \u2022 Positive skin test to an extract of  A. fumigatus \u2022 Elevated total serum IgE  >  417 KU/L or 1000 ng/mL \u2022 Elevated serum IgE ( A. fumigatus ) or IgG ( A. fumigatus ) \u2022 Peripheral blood eosinophilia  >  0.5  \u00d7  109/L \u2022 Presence or history of chest X-ray abnormalities \u2022 Fungal hyphae of  A. fumigatus  on microscopic examination  of sputum  speciesMost cases of bronchopulmonary aspergillosis are  caused by  Aspergillus fumigatus , but other members of  the genus ( A. clavatus ,  A. flavus ,  A. niger  and  A. terreus )  occasionally cause disease. The conditions associated  with  Aspergillus  species are listed in  Box 19.65 . as a result of a hypersensitivity reaction to germinating  fungal spores in the airway wall. The condition may  complicate the course of asthma and cystic fibrosis, and  is a recognised cause of pulmonary eosinophilia (p. 713).  The prevalence of ABPA is approximately 1\u20132% in  asthma and 5\u201310% in cystic fibrosis. A variety of human  leucocyte antigens (HLA) convey both an increased and  a decreased risk of developing the condition, suggesting  that genetic susceptibility is important. Branching Aspergillus hyphae seen in ABPA. The figure  shows the use of calcofluor white, a non-specific fluorochrome stain that  binds to fungi and fluoresces when exposed to light of the appropriate  wavelength.  Aspergillus fumigatus  was subsequently grown on culture.  Common manifestations in the early phase include  fever, breathlessness, cough productive of bronchial  casts, and worsening of asthmatic symptoms. The  appearance of radiographic infiltrates may cause ABPA  to be mistaken for pneumonia, but the diagnosis may  also be suggested by segmental or lobar collapse on  chest X-rays of patients whose asthma symptoms are  stable. Diagnostic features are shown in  Box 19.66  and  the typical  Aspergillus  hyphae in  Figure 19.44 . If bron- chiectasis develops, its symptoms and complications  often overshadow those of asthma.  Factors predisposing to fungal disease therapy with low-dose oral corticosteroids (prednisolone  7.5\u201310 mg daily), with the aim of suppressing the  immuno pathological responses and preventing progres- sive tissue damage. In some patients, itraconazole  (400 mg/day) facilitates a reduction in oral steroids, and  a 4-month trial is usually recommended to assess its  efficacy. The use of specific anti-IgE monoclonal anti- bodies is under consideration. Exacerbations, particu- larly when associated with new chest X-ray changes,  should be treated promptly with prednisolone 40\u201360 mg  daily and physiotherapy. If persistent lobar collapse  occurs, bronchoscopy (usually under general anaes- thetic) should be performed to remove impacted mucus  and ensure prompt re-inflation. medication \u2022 Chronic alcoholism \u2022 HIV \u2022 Radiotherapy \u2022 Alteration of normal bacterial flora by antibiotic therapy  Classification of bronchopulmonary  aspergillosis pulmonary eosinophilia) Aspergillus  may lodge and germinate in areas of  damaged lung tissue, forming a fungal ball or \u2018aspergil- loma\u2019. The upper lobes are most frequently involved and  fungal balls readily form in tuberculous cavities ( Fig. 19.45 ). Less common causes include damage from a lung  abscess cavity, a bronchiectatic space, pulmonary infarct,  sarcoid, ankylosing spondylitis or even a cavitated  tumour. The presence of multiple aspergilloma cavities  in a diseased area of lung has been termed a \u2018complex  aspergilloma\u2019 (see below). Aspergillus clavatus ) \u2022 Intracavitary aspergilloma \u2022 Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis \u2022 Chronic and subacute pulmonary aspergillosis identified incidentally on chest X-ray. However, they   Criteria for the diagnosis of probable  invasive pulmonary aspergillosis1 <  0.5  \u00d7  109/L for  \u2265  10 days)  temporally related to the onset of fungal disease \u2022 Recipient of allogeneic stem cell transplant \u2022 Prolonged use of corticosteroids (average minimum   0.3 mg/kg/day prednisolone or equivalent) for  >  3 wks  (excludes ABPA) \u2022 Treatment with other recognised T-cell immune  suppressants, such as ciclosporin, TNF- \u03b1  blockers, specific  monoclonal antibodies (e.g. alemtuzumab) or nucleoside  analogues during the last 90 days \u2022 Inherited severe immune deficiency, e.g. chronic  granulomatous disease or severe combined immune  deficiency ( p. 80 ) Fig. 19.45 CT of aspergilloma in the left upper lobe. The rounded  fungal ball is separated from the wall of the cavity by a \u2018halo\u2019 of air.  Clinical criteria2 1. Dense, well-circumscribed lesion(s) with or without a   halo sign 2. Air crescent sign 3. Cavity plaque or eschar seen on bronchoscopy one of the following: 1. Recovery of fungal elements indicating a mould of  Aspergillus and life-threatening. Non-specific systemic features,  such as lethargy and weight loss, may also be reported. The fungal ball produces a tumour-like opacity on  X-ray, but can be distinguished from a carcinoma by the  presence of a crescent of air between the fungal ball and  the upper wall of the cavity. HRCT is more sensitive (see  Fig. 19.45 ). Elevated serum precipitins to  A. fumigatus are found in virtually all patients. Sputum microscopy  typically demonstrates scanty hyphal fragments and is  usually positive on culture. Less than half exhibit skin  hypersensitivity to extracts of  A. fumigatus . Rarely, other  filamentous fungi can cause intracavitary mycetoma and  are identified by culture. Aspergillus \u2022 Indirect tests (detection of antigen or cell wall constituents) 1. Galactomannan antigen in plasma, serum or BAL fluid 2.  \u03b2 -1,3-glucan detected in serum (detects other species  of fungi, as well as  Aspergillus )3 Cancer/Mycoses Study Group.  findings and temporally related to current episode. preliminary screening tool for invasive aspergillosis. antifungal therapy is of no value and steroids may pre- dispose to invasion. Aspergillomas complicated by hae- moptysis should be excised surgically. In those unfit for  surgery, palliative procedures range from local instilla- tion of amphotericin B to bronchial artery embolisation.  The latter may be used to control haemoptysis prior to  definitive surgery. monly a complication of profound neutropenia caused  by drugs (especially immunosuppressants) and/or  disease ( Box 19.67 ). must be considered in any immunocompromised patient   Risk factors for invasive aspergillosis ticularly pleural pain or haemoptysis) or a pleural rub.  Invasion of pulmonary vessels causes thrombosis and  infarction, and systemic spread may occur to the brain,  heart, kidneys and others organs. Tracheobronchial  aspergillosis involvement is characterised by the forma- tion of fungal plaques and ulceration. HRCT  characteristically  shows  macronodules  (usually  \u2265  1 cm), which may be surrounded by a \u2018halo\u2019  of low attenuation if captured early ( <  5 days). Culture  or histopathological evidence of  Aspergillus  in diseased  tissues provides a definitive diagnosis, but the majority  of patients are too ill for invasive tests such as broncho- scopy or lung biopsy. Other investigations include  detection of  Aspergillus  cell wall components (galacto- mannan and  \u03b2 -1,3-glucan) in blood or BAL fluid and  Aspergillus  DNA by PCR. Diagnosis is often inferred  from a combination of features ( Box 19.68 ). \u2022 Solid organ or allogeneic stem cell transplantation \u2022 Prolonged high-dose corticosteroid therapy \u2022 Leukaemia and other haematological malignancies \u2022 Cytotoxic chemotherapy \u2022 Advanced HIV disease \u2022 Severe COPD \u2022 Critically ill patients on intensive care units \u2022 Chronic granulomatous disease is delayed. The treatment of choice is voriconazole.  Second-line agents include liposomal amphotericin,   The burden of lung cancer \u2022 Accounts for 18% of all cancer deaths \u2022 More than a threefold increase in deaths since 1950 \u2022 Rates rising in women: female lung cancer deaths outnumber  clinically, radiologically and serologically (by estimation  of the circulating galactomannan level). Recovery is  dependent on immune reconstitution, which may be  accompanied by enlargement and/or cavitation of pul- monary nodules. Patients at risk of  Aspergillus  (and other fungal infec- \u2022 Has overtaken breast cancer in several countries, making it  the most common cause of cancer death in men and women particulate air (HEPA) filters and laminar airflow. In  areas with high spore counts, patients are advised to  wear a mask if venturing outside their hospital room.  Posaconazole (200 mg 3 times daily) or itraconazole  (200 mg/day) may be prescribed for primary prophy- laxis, and patients with a history of definite or probable  IPA should be considered for secondary prophylaxis  before further immunosuppression. ( Box 19.69 ). Tobacco use is the major preventable cause.  Just as tobacco use and cancer rates are falling in some  developed countries, both smoking and lung cancer are  rising in Eastern Europe and in many developing coun- tries. The great majority of tumours in the lung are  primary bronchial carcinomas and, in contrast to many  other tumours, the prognosis remains poor, with fewer  than 30% of patients surviving at 1 year and 6\u20138% at   5 years. Carcinomas of many other organs, as well as  osteogenic and other sarcomas, may cause metastatic  pulmonary deposits. non-invasive complication of chronic lung disease, such  as COPD, tuberculosis, opportunistic mycobacterial  disease or fibrotic lung disease. It may be associated  with malnutrition, diabetes or liver disease and  co-infection with opportunistic mycobacteria. CPA may  mimic tuberculosis, resulting in its delayed diagnosis.  Features include cough (with or without haemoptysis),  weight loss, anorexia and fatigue over months or years,  with associated fever, night sweats and elevated inflam- matory markers. Radiological features include thick- walled cavities (predominantly apical), pulmonary  infiltrates, pleural thickening and, later, fibrosis. The  terms chronic necrotising (CNPA), cavitary (\u2018complex  aspergilloma\u2019) and fibrosing pulmonary aspergillosis  have been applied, depending on the predominant fea- tures. There is overlap between CNPA and \u2018subacute\u2019  and \u2018semi-invasive\u2019 aspergillosis. Subacute aspergillosis  is increasingly recognised in intensive care patients,  especially those with COPD. The diagnosis is made by  a combination of radiological examination, histopathol- ogy, isolation of fungus from the respiratory tract and  detection of  Aspergillus  IgG in serum. Treatment usually  involves prolonged indefinite courses of itraconazole or  voriconazole, but cure is unusual. The most frequent  pattern is chronic relapse/remission with gradual deter- ioration. Surgical intervention is fraught with complica- tions and should be avoided. lung cancer. It is thought to be directly responsible for  at least 90% of lung carcinomas, the risk being propor- tional to the amount smoked and to the tar content of  cigarettes. The death rate from the disease in heavy  smokers is 40 times that in non-smokers. Risk falls  slowly after smoking cessation, but remains above that  in non-smokers for many years. It is estimated that 1 in  2 smokers dies from a smoking-related disease, about  half in middle age. The effect of \u2018passive\u2019 smoking is  more difficult to quantify but is currently thought to be  a factor in 5% of all lung cancer deaths. Exposure to  naturally occurring radon is another risk. The incidence  of lung cancer is slightly higher in urban than in rural  dwellers, which may reflect differences in atmospheric  pollution (including tobacco smoke) or occupation, since  a number of industrial materials are associated with  lung cancer ( p. 266 ). In recent years, the strong link  between smoking and ill health has led many Western  governments to legislate against smoking in public  places, and smoking prevalence and some smoking- related diseases are already declining in these countries  ( p. 100 ). p. 384 ) may present with a pulmonary  syndrome indistinguishable clinically from acute IPA.  Diagnosis relies on histopathology (where available)  and/or culture of the organism from diseased tissue.  The principles of treatment are as for other forms of  mucormycosis: correction of predisposing factors, anti- fungal therapy with high-dose lipid amphotericin B or  posaconazole, and surgical d\u00e9bridement. Histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, blastomycosis  and cryptococcosis are discussed on pages 384\u2013386. cally during the 20th century as a direct result of the  tobacco epidemic ( Fig. 19.46 ). In women, smoking  preva lence and deaths from lung cancer continue to  increase, and more women now die of lung cancer than  breast cancer in the USA and the UK. AND LUNG cancer worldwide, causing 1.4 million deaths per year  lium or mucous glands. The common cell types are listed  in  Box 19.70 . When the tumour occurs in a large bron- chus, symptoms arise early, but tumours originating in  a peripheral bronchus can grow very large without   Males Females Rate per 100 000 900 300 800 45\u201354 55\u201364 65\u201374 45\u201354 55\u201364 65\u201374 250 700 75\u201384 85 and over 75\u201384 85 and over 600 200 500 150 400 300 100 200 50 100 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 0 1950 0 1950 Year Year Mortality trends from lung cancer in England and Wales, 1950\u20132004, by age and year of death. A Males.  B Females. Note  the decline in mortality from lung cancer in men towards the end of this period, reflecting a change in smoking habit.   Common cell types in bronchial carcinoma % 35 Adenocarcinoma 30 Small-cell 20 Large-cell 15 Fig. 19.47 Large cavitated bronchial carcinoma in left  lower lobe. Peripheral squamous tumours may undergo central  necrosis and cavitation, and may resemble a lung abscess  on X-ray ( Fig. 19.47 ). Bronchial carcinoma may involve  the pleura directly or by lymphatic spread, and may  extend into the chest wall, invading the intercostal  nerves or the brachial plexus and causing pain. Lym- phatic spread to mediastinal and supraclavicular lymph  nodes often occurs before diagnosis. Blood-borne metas- tases occur most commonly in liver, bone, brain, adrenals  and skin. Even a small primary tumour may cause wide- spread metastatic deposits and this is a particular char- acteristic of small-cell lung cancers. smoker should always be investigated to exclude a  bronchial carcinoma. Occasionally, central tumours  invade large vessels, causing sudden massive  haemoptysis that may be fatal. local, metastatic or paraneoplastic tumour effects. \u2022  Cough . This is the most common early symptom.  It is often dry but secondary infection may cause  purulent sputum. A change in the character of a  smoker\u2019s cough, particularly if associated with other  new symptoms, should always raise suspicion of  bronchial carcinoma. \u2022  Haemoptysis . Haemoptysis is common, especially  with central bronchial tumours. Although it may be  caused by bronchitic infection, haemoptysis in a  \u2022  Bronchial obstruction . This is another common  presentation, and the clinical and radiological  manifestations ( Figs 19.48  and  19.5 , p. 650;  Box  19.71 ) depend on the site and extent of the  obstruction, any secondary infection, and the extent  of coexisting lung disease. Complete obstruction  causes collapse of a lobe or lung, with  breathlessness, mediastinal displacement and  dullness to percussion with reduced breath sounds.  Partial bronchial obstruction may cause a  monophonic, unilateral wheeze that fails to clear  Tumours of the bronchus and lung  secretions to cause pneumonia or lung abscess as a  presenting problem. Pneumonia that recurs at the  same site or responds slowly to treatment,  particularly in a smoker, should always suggest an  underlying bronchial carcinoma. Stridor (a harsh  inspiratory noise) occurs when the larynx, trachea or  a main bronchus is narrowed by the primary tumour  or by compression from malignant enlargement of  the subcarinal and paratracheal lymph nodes. \u2022  Breathlessness . Breathlessness may be caused by  collapse or pneumonia, or by tumour causing a  large pleural effusion or compressing a phrenic  nerve and leading to diaphragmatic paralysis. emphysema of left lung Displacement of  trachea, heart and other  mediastinal structures to the right Pain and nerve entrapment.  Pleural pain usually  indicates malignant pleural invasion, although it  can occur with distal infection. Intercostal nerve  involvement causes pain in the distribution of a  thoracic dermatome. Carcinoma in the lung apex  may cause Horner\u2019s syndrome (ipsilateral partial  ptosis, enophthalmos, miosis and hypohidrosis   of the face \u2013  p. 1172 ) due to involvement of the  sympathetic chain at or above the stellate ganglion.  Pancoast\u2019s syndrome (pain in the inner aspect of the  arm, sometimes with small muscle wasting in the  hand) indicates malignant destruction of the T1 and  C8 roots in the lower part of the brachial plexus by  an apical lung tumour. obstruction of right main bronchus Position of elevated right hemidiaphragm  (not seen on chest X-ray) Collapse of the right lung: effects on neighbouring  structures. A Chest X-ray.  B The typical abnormalities are  highlighted.  Mediastinal spread . Involvement of the oesophagus  may cause dysphagia. If the pericardium is invaded,  arrhythmia or pericardial effusion may occur.  Superior vena cava obstruction by malignant nodes  causes suffusion and swelling of the neck and face,  conjunctival oedema, headache and dilated veins on  the chest wall, and is most commonly due to  bronchial carcinoma. Involvement of the left  recurrent laryngeal nerve by tumours at the left  hilum causes vocal cord paralysis, voice alteration  and a \u2018bovine\u2019 cough (lacking the normal explosive  character). Supraclavicular lymph nodes may be  palpably enlarged or identified using ultrasound; if  so, a needle aspirate may provide a simple means  of cytological diagnosis.  Causes of large bronchus obstruction Metastatic spread . This may lead to focal neurological  defects, epileptic seizures, personality change,  jaundice, bone pain or skin nodules. Lassitude,  anorexia and weight loss usually indicate metastatic  spread. \u2022 Enlarged tracheobronchial lymph nodes (malignant or  tuberculous) Finger clubbing . Overgrowth of the soft tissue of  the terminal phalanx, leading to increased nail  curvature and nail bed fluctuation, is often seen   (p. 644). \u2022 Bronchial casts or plugs consisting of inspissated mucus or  blood clot (especially asthma, cystic fibrosis, haemoptysis,  debility) \u2022 Collections of mucus or mucopus retained in the bronchi as a  result of ineffective expectoration (especially postoperative  following abdominal surgery) Hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy  ( HPOA ).  This is a painful periostitis of the distal tibia, fibula,  radius and ulna, with local tenderness and  sometimes pitting oedema over the anterior shin.  X-rays reveal subperiosteal new bone formation.  While most frequently associated with bronchial  carcinoma, HPOA can occur with other tumours. \u2022 Giant left atrium \u2022 Pericardial effusion \u2022 Congenital bronchial atresia \u2022 Fibrous bronchial stricture (e.g. following tuberculosis or  bronchial surgery/lung transplant) Non-metastatic extrapulmonary effects  ( Box 19.72 ).  The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic  hormone secretion (SIADH,  p. 438 ) and ectopic  adrenocorticotrophic hormone secretion ( p. 774 ) are  usually associated with small-cell lung cancer.  Hypercalcaemia may indicate malignant bone  RespiRatoRy disease  Non-metastatic extrapulmonary  manifestations of bronchial carcinoma Endocrine ( Ch. 20 )\u2022 Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion causing  hyponatraemia 8 1 \u2022 Hypercalcaemia due to secretion of parathyroid hormone- related peptides \u2022 Carcinoid syndrome ( p. 889 ) \u2022 Gynaecomastia 7 4 3 Neurological ( Ch. 26 )\u2022 Polyneuropathy \u2022 Myelopathy \u2022 Cerebellar degeneration \u2022 Myasthenia (Lambert\u2013Eaton syndrome,  p. 1227 ) Fig. 19.49 Common radiological presentations of bronchial  carcinoma.  See  Box 19.73  for details .  Common radiological presentations of  bronchial carcinoma \u2022 Hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy \u2022 Nephrotic syndrome \u2022 Polymyositis and dermatomyositis \u2022 Eosinophilia   Unilateral hilar enlargement\u2022 Central tumour. Hilar glandular involvement. However, a  peripheral tumour in the apical segment of a lower lobe can  look like an enlarged hilar shadow on the PA X-ray by a tumour. Associated neurological syndromes  may occur with any type of bronchial carcinoma.   Peripheral pulmonary opacity (p. 660)\u2022 Usually irregular but well circumscribed, and may contain  irregular cavitation. Can be very large   Lung, lobe or segmental collapse\u2022 Usually caused by tumour within the bronchus, leading to  nosis, establish the histological cell type and define the  extent of the disease. main bronchus by enlarged lymph glands   Pleural effusion\u2022 Usually indicates tumour invasion of pleural space; very  rarely, a manifestation of infection in collapsed lung tissue  distal to a bronchial carcinoma  Broadening of mediastinum, enlarged cardiac shadow,  elevation of a hemidiaphragm on chest X-ray, from lobar collapse (see  Fig. 19.5 , p. 650)  to mass lesions, effusion or malignant rib destruction  ( Fig. 19.49  and  Box 19.73 ). CT should be performed early  as it may reveal mediastinal or metastatic spread and is  helpful for planning biopsy procedures: for example, in  establishing whether a tumour is accessible by bron- choscopy or percutaneous CT-guided biopsy. cause enlargement of the cardiac shadow. If a raised  hemidiaphragm is caused by phrenic nerve palsy, screening  will show it to move paradoxically upwards when patient  sniffs   Rib destruction\u2022 Direct invasion of the chest wall or blood-borne metastatic  spread can cause osteolytic lesions of the ribs skin lesions, liver or bone marrow. visualised and sampled directly by biopsy and brushing  using a flexible bronchoscope. Bronchoscopy also allows  an assessment of operability, from the proximity of  central tumours to the main carina ( Fig. 19.50 ). For tumours which are too peripheral to be accessible  by bronchoscope, the yield of \u2018blind\u2019 bronchoscopic  washings and brushings from the radiologically affected  area is low, and percutaneous needle biopsy under CT  or ultrasound guidance is a more reliable way to obtain  a histological diagnosis. There is a small risk of iatro- genic pneumothorax, which may preclude the proce- dure if there is extensive coexisting COPD. In patients  who are unfit for invasive investigation, sputum cytol- ogy can reveal malignant cells ( Fig. 19.51 ), although the  yield is low. In patients with pleural effusions, pleural aspiration  and biopsy is the preferred investigation. Where facili- ties exist, thoracoscopy increases yield by allowing tar- geted biopsies under direct vision. In patients with  metastatic disease, the diagnosis can often be confirmed  early dictates that patients with this are usually not   suitable for surgical intervention. In patients with   non-small-cell cancer, appropriate treatment and prog- nosis are determined by disease extent, so careful staging  is required. CT scanning is used early to detect obvious  local or distant spread. Enlarged upper mediastinal  nodes may be sampled using a bronchoscope equipped  with endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) or by media- stinoscopy. Nodes in the lower mediastinum can be  ultrasound. Combined CT and PET imaging (see  Fig. 19.6 , p. 651) is used increasingly to detect metabolically  active tumour metastases. Head CT, radionuclide bone  scanning, liver ultrasound and bone marrow biopsy are  generally reserved for patients with clinical, haemato- logical or biochemical evidence of tumour spread to  these sites. Information on tumour size and nodal and  metastatic spread is then collated to assign the patient  to one of seven staging groups that determine optimal  management and prognosis ( Fig. 19.52 ). Detailed physio- logical testing is required to assess whether the patient\u2019s  respiratory and cardiac function is sufficient to allow  aggressive treatment. Bronchoscopic view of a bronchogenic carcinoma.There is distortion of mucosal folds, partial occlusion of the airway lumen  and abnormal tumour tissue.  vival, but some patients treated with radical radiother- apy and chemotherapy also achieve prolonged remission  or cure. Unfortunately, in over 75% of cases, treatment  with the aim of cure is not possible, or is inappropriate  due to extensive spread or comorbidity. Such patients  are offered palliative therapy and best supportive care.  Radiotherapy and in some cases chemotherapy can  relieve distressing symptoms. ments in surgical and post-operative care, now offers  5-year survival rates of over 75% in stage I disease   (N0, tumour confined within visceral pleura) and   55% in stage II disease, which includes resection in  patients with ipsilateral peribronchial or hilar node  involvement. Sputum sample showing a cluster of carcinoma cells.There is keratinisation, with orangeophilia of the cytoplasm. Non- keratinised forms are also seen. The nuclei are large and \u2018coal-black\u2019 in  density. These features suggest squamous cell bronchogenic carcinoma.  therapy can offer long-term survival in selected patients  with localised disease in whom comorbidity precludes  surgery. Radical radiotherapy is usually combined with  chemotherapy when lymph nodes are involved (stage III).  Highly targeted (stereotactic) radiotherapy may be given  in 3\u20135 treatments for small lesions. The greatest value of radiotherapy, however, is in the  palliation of distressing complications, such as superior  Tumour stage N1 (Ipsilateral hilar) N0 (None) N2 (Ipsilateral mediastinal or subcarinal) N3 (Contralateral or supraclavicular) T1 (<3 cm) Ia (50%) IIa (36%) T2a (3\u20135 cm) Ib (43%) IIIa (19%) IIIb (7%) T2b (5\u20137 cm) IIa (36%) IIb (25%) T3 (>7 cm) IIb (25%) IIIa (19%) IIIa (19%) IIIb (7%) T4 (Invading heart, vessels, oesophagus, carina etc.) IV (2%) M1 Metastases present Tumour stage and 5-year survival in non-small cell lung cancer. The figure shows the relationship between tumour extent (size,  lymph node status and metastases) and average prognosis (% survival at 5 years for each clinical stage). Adapted from Detterbeck 2009 - see p. 732. 703 RespiRatoRy disease and allow re-aeration of collapsed lung. The best  results are achieved in tumours of the main bronchi.  Endobronchial stents can be used to maintain airway  patency in the face of extrinsic compression by malig- nant nodes. vena cava obstruction, recurrent haemoptysis, and pain  caused by chest wall invasion or by skeletal metastatic  deposits. Obstruction of the trachea and main bronchi  can also be relieved temporarily. Radiotherapy can be  used in conjunction with chemotherapy in the treatment  of small-cell carcinoma, and is particularly efficient at  preventing the development of brain metastases in  patients who have had a complete response to chemo- therapy ( p. 277 ). managed in specialist centres by multidisciplinary  teams, including oncologists, thoracic surgeons, respira- tory physicians and specialist nurses. Effective commu- nication, pain relief and attention to diet are important.  Lung tumours can cause clinically significant depression  and anxiety, and these may need specific therapy. The  management of non-metastatic endocrine manifesta- tions is described in  Chapter 20 . When a malignant  pleural effusion is present, an attempt should be made  to drain the pleural cavity using an intercostal drain;  provided the lung fully re-expands, pleurodesis with a  sclerosing agent such as talc should be performed to  prevent recurrent effusion. poor, with around 70% of patients dying within a year  of diagnosis and only 6\u20138% of patients surviving 5 years  after diagnosis. The best prognosis is with well- differentiated squamous cell tumours that have not  metastasised and are amenable to surgical resection. The  clinical features and prognosis of some less common  benign and malignant lung tumours are given in   Box 19.74 . tions of cytotoxic drugs, sometimes in combination with  radiotherapy, can increase the median survival from   3 months to well over a year. The use of combinations  of chemotherapeutic drugs requires considerable skill  and should be overseen by teams of clinical oncologists  and specialist nurses. Combination chemotherapy leads  to better outcomes than single-agent treatment. Regular  cycles of therapy, including combinations of intra venous  cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine or intra- venous cisplatin and etoposide, are commonly used. In  general, chemotherapy is less effective in non-small-cell  bronchial cancers. However, studies in such patients  using platinum-based chemotherapy regimens have  shown a 30% response rate associated with a small  increase in survival. Some non-small-cell lung tumours,  particularly adenocarcinomas, carry detectable muta- tions in the epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR )  gene. Patients with these mutations are particularly  responsive to the tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and  erlotinib. In non-small-cell carcinoma, there is some evidence  that chemotherapy given before surgery may increase  survival and can effectively \u2018down-stage\u2019 disease with  limited nodal spread. Post-operative chemotherapy is  now proven to enhance survival rates when operative  samples show nodal involvement by tumour. Nausea and vomiting are common side-effects of  chemotherapy and are best treated with 5-HT3 receptor  antagonists ( p. 289 ). Blood-borne metastatic deposits in the lungs may be  derived from many primary tumours, in particular those  of the breast, kidney, uterus, ovary, testes and thyroid.  The secondary deposits are usually multiple and bilat- eral. Often there are no respiratory symptoms and   the diagnosis is made on radiological examination.  Breathlessness may occur if a considerable amount of  lung tissue has been replaced by metastatic tumour.  obstruction can be achieved in selected patients using   Rare types of lung tumour Status Histology Typical presentation Prognosis Peripheral or central  lung mass Adenosquamous  carcinoma Malignant Tumours with areas of  unequivocal squamous and  adeno-differentiation Low-grade malignant Neuroendocrine  differentiation Bronchial obstruction,  cough 95% 5-yr survival with  resection Neuro-endocrine  (carcinoid)  tumour  ( p. 784 ) Local resection curative Bronchial gland  adenoma Benign Salivary gland differentiation Tracheobronchial  irritation/obstruction Local recurrence occurs Bronchial gland  carcinoma Low-grade malignant Salivary gland differentiation Tracheobronchial  irritation/obstruction Hamartoma Benign Mesenchymal cells, cartilage Peripheral lung nodule Local resection curative Variable, worse if multifocal Bronchoalveolar  carcinoma Malignant Tumour cells line alveolar  spaces Alveolar shadowing,  productive cough Tumours of the bronchus and lung  haem optysis and lobar collapse. Lymphatic infiltration may develop in patients with  carcinoma of the breast, stomach, bowel, pancreas or  bronchus. \u2018Lymphangitic carcinomatosis\u2019 causes severe  and rapidly progressive breathlessness associated with  marked hypoxaemia. The chest X-ray shows diffuse pul- monary shadowing radiating from the hilar regions,  often associated with septal lines, and CT demonstrates  characteristic polygonal thickened interlobular septa.  Palliation of breathlessness with opiates may help   ( p. 289 ). often diagnosed when a chest X-ray is undertaken for  some other reason. In general, they do not invade vital  structures but may cause symptoms by compressing the  trachea or the superior vena cava. A dermoid cyst may  very occasionally rupture into a bronchus. Malignant mediastinal tumours are distinguished by  their power to invade as well as compress surrounding  structures. As a result, even a small malignant tumour  can produce symptoms, although more commonly the  tumour has attained a considerable size before this  happens ( Box 19.76 ). The most common cause is medi- astinal lymph node metastases from bronchogenic car- cinoma, but lymphomas, leukaemia, malignant thymic  tumours and germ-cell tumours can cause similar fea- tures. Aortic and innominate aneurysms have destruc- tive features resembling those of malignant mediastinal  tumours. Figure 19.53  shows the four major compartments of the  mediastinum, and  Box 19.75  lists likely causes of a medi- astinal mass in each location.  Clinical features of malignant  mediastinal invasion 19.75  Causes of a mediastinal mass \u2022 Persistent left superior  vena cava barium swallow examination \u2022 Prominent left subclavian  \u2022 Thymic tumour \u2022 Dermoid cyst \u2022 Lymphoma \u2022 Aortic aneurysm artery \u2022 Germ cell tumour \u2022 Pericardial cyst \u2022 Hiatus hernia through the  cough \u2022 Dermoid cyst \u2022 Thymic tumour \u2022 Lymphoma \u2022 Aortic aneurysm diaphragmatic foramen of  Morgagni \u2022 Aortic aneurysm \u2022 Foregut duplication \u2022 Paravertebral abscess \u2022 Oesophageal lesion subconjunctival oedema, and oedema and cyanosis of   head, neck, hands and arms. Dilated anastomotic veins   on chest wall \u2022 Bronchogenic cyst \u2022 Hiatus hernia \u2022 Lymphoma \u2022 Sarcoidosis 1 Thymus Lower border of manubrium sterni Lower border of 4th thoracic vertebra Teratoma Dermoid Lymphoid masses 3 2 Neurogenic tumour 4 Pleuropericardial cyst The divisions of the mediastinum. (1) Superior mediastinum. (2) Anterior mediastinum. (3) Middle mediastinum. (4) Posterior  mediastinum. Sites of the more common mediastinal tumours are also illustrated. From Johnson 1986 \u2013 see p. 732. 705 RespiRatoRy disease  Features common to the diffuse  parenchymal lung diseases \u2022 Breathlessness: usually slowly progressive; insidious onset;  acute in some cases \u2022 Clubbing: common in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis but also  seen in other types, e.g. asbestosis \u2022 Central cyanosis and signs of right heart failure in advanced  disease shadowing but may be normal in early or limited disease \u2022 HRCT: combinations of ground glass changes, reticulonodular  shadowing, honeycomb cysts and traction bronchiectasis,  depending on stage of disease Fig. 19.54 Intrathoracic goitre (arrows) extending from right  upper mediastinum. volumes and impaired gas transfer; exercise tests assess  exercise tolerance and exercise-related fall in  Sa O2  Conditions that mimic diffuse parenchymal  lung disease \u2022  Pneumocystis jirovecii \u2022  Mycoplasma pneumoniae \u2022 Tuberculosis \u2022 Parasite, e.g. filariasis \u2022 Fungal infection \u2022 Bronchoalveolar   X-ray as a sharply circumscribed mediastinal opacity  encroaching on one or both lung fields ( Fig. 19.54 ). CT  (or MRI) is the investigation of choice for mediastinal  tumours (e.g. see  Fig. 20.11B ,  p. 753 ). A malignant medi- astinal tumour seldom has a clearly defined margin   and often presents as a general broadening of the  mediastinum. Bronchoscopy may reveal a primary bronchial carci- \u2022 Lymphatic carcinomatosis \u2022 Multiple metastases Aspiration pneumonitis bronchial ultrasound may be used to guide sampling of  peribronchial masses. The posterior mediastinum can be  imaged and biopsied via the oesophagus using endo- scopic ultrasound (p. 651). Mediastinoscopy under general anaesthetic can be  used to visualise and biopsy masses in the superior and  anterior mediastinum, but surgical exploration of the  chest, with removal of part or all of the tumour, is often  required to obtain a histological diagnosis. cally because most produce symptoms sooner or later.  Cysts may become infected, while neural tumours have  the potential to undergo malignant transformation. The  operative mortality is low in the absence of coexisting  cardiovascular disease, COPD or extreme age. PULMONARY DISEASES radiographic similarities ( Box 19.77 ). The current clas- sification is shown in  Figure 19.55  and the potential dif- ferential diagnoses in  Box 19.78 . They often present with  a cough that is typically dry and distressing, and breath- lessness that is frequently insidious in onset but thereaf- ter relentlessly progressive. Physical examination reveals  the presence of inspiratory crackles and in many cases  digital clubbing develops. Pulmonary function tests  typically show a restrictive ventilatory defect in the pres- ence of small lung volumes and reduced gas transfer.  The typical radiographic findings include ground glass  and reticulonodular shadowing in the earliest stages,  with progression to honeycomb cysts and traction bron- chiectasis. Whilst these appearances may be seen on a  \u2018plain\u2019 chest X-ray, they are most easily appreciated on  HRCT, which has assumed a central role in the evalua- tion of DPLD ( Fig. 19.56 ). heterogeneous group of conditions affecting the pulmo- nary parenchyma (interstitium) and/or alveolar lumen,  which are frequently considered collectively as they  subgroup of DPLDs that are grouped together because  Diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD) Idiopathic interstitial pneumonia Granulomatous DPLD, e.g. sarcoidosis Other forms of DPLD, e.g. lymphangioleiomyomatosis, histiocytosis X etc. DPLD of known cause, e.g. drugs or association with connective tissue disease Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Idiopathic interstitial pneumonia other than idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Desquamative interstitial pneumonia Respiratory bronchiolitis interstitial lung disease Acute interstitial pneumonia Cryptogenic organising pneumonia Non-specific interstitial pneumonia Lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia Classification of diffuse parenchymal lung disease. biochemical and immunological investigations High-resolution CT Inconsistent clinical or CT appearances Appearances consistent with usual interstitial pneumonia Appearances consistent with another diffuse parenchymal lung disease, e.g. sarcoid Diagnose idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Diagnose and treat accordingly Further investigations, e.g. bronchoalveolar lavage, transbronchial biopsy, surgical biopsy Algorithm for the investigation of patients with interstitial lung disease following initial clinical and chest X-ray examination. by careful history, examination and investigation. The histological features of the condition are sugges- of their unknown aetiology ( Box 19.79 ). They are often  distinguished by the predominant histological pattern  on tissue biopsy; hence they are frequently referred   to by their pathological description \u2013 for example,   usual interstitial pneumonia or non-specific interstitial  pneumonia. The most important of these is idiopathic  pulmonary fibrosis. tive of repeated episodes of focal damage to the alveolar  epithelium consistent with an autoimmune process but  the aetiology remains elusive; speculation has included  exposure to viruses (e.g. Epstein\u2013Barr virus), occupa- tional dusts (metal or wood), drugs (antidepressants) or  chronic gastro-oesophageal reflux. Familial cases are  rare but genetic factors that control the inflammatory  and fibrotic response are likely to be important. There is  a strong association with cigarette smoking. gressive fibrosing interstitial pneumonia of unknown  cause, occurring in adults and associated with the histo- logical or radiological pattern of usual interstitial pneu- monia (UIP). Important differentials include fibrosing  diseases caused by occupational exposure, medication  before the age of 50 years. With the advent of   Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias Notes Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis \u2013 see text Non-specific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP) See page 709 Respiratory bronchiolitis\u2013interstitial lung  disease More common in men and smokers. Usually presents at age 40\u201360 yrs. Smoking  cessation may lead to improvement. Natural history unclear Acute interstitial pneumonia Often preceded by viral upper respiratory tract infection. Severe exertional dyspnoea,  widespread pneumonic consolidation and diffuse alveolar damage on biopsy. Prognosis  often poor Desquamative interstitial pneumonia (DIP) More common in men and smokers. Presents at age 40\u201360 yrs. Insidious onset of  dyspnoea. Clubbing in 50%. Biopsy shows increased macrophages in alveolar space,  septal thickening and type II pneumocyte hyperplasia. Prognosis generally good Cryptogenic organising pneumonia  (\u2018bronchiolitis obliterans organising  pneumonia\u2019 \u2013 BOOP) Presents as clinical and radiological pneumonia. Systemic features and markedly  raised ESR common. Finger clubbing absent. Biopsy shows florid proliferation of  immature collagen (Masson bodies) and fibrous tissue. Response to corticosteroids  classically excellent Lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia (LIP) More common in women, slow onset over years. Investigate for associations with  connective tissue disease or HIV. Unclear whether corticosteroids helpful  Investigations in diffuse parenchymal  lung disease pulmonary eosinophilias and drug reactions; neutrophilia in  hypersensitivity pneumonitis finding in an otherwise asymptomatic individual but  more typically presents with progressive breathlessness  (which may have been insidious) and a non-productive  cough. Constitutional symptoms are unusual. Clinical  findings include finger clubbing and the presence of  bi-basal fine late inspiratory crackles likened to the  unfastening of Velcro. +: may be elevated in sarcoid \u2022 Lactate dehydrogenase: may be elevated in active alveolitis \u2022 Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme: non-specific indicator  of disease activity in sarcoid \u2022 ESR and CRP: non-specifically raised \u2022 Autoimmune screen: anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide  (anti-CCP) and other autoantibodies may suggest connective  tissue disease Box 19.77 ) Pulmonary function (see  Box 19.77 ) Bronchoscopy\u2022 Bronchoalveolar lavage: differential cell counts may point to  sarcoid and drug-induced pneumonitis, pulmonary  eosinophilias, hypersensitivity pneumonitis or cryptogenic  organising pneumonia; useful to exclude infection \u2022 Transbronchial biopsy: useful in sarcoid and differential of  malignancy or infection Box 19.80 . Established IPF will  be apparent on chest X-ray as bilateral lower lobe and  subpleural reticular shadowing. However, the chest  X-ray may be normal in individuals with early or limited  disease. HRCT typically demonstrates a patchy, pre- dominantly peripheral, subpleural and basal reticular  pattern and, in more advanced disease, the presence of  honeycombing cysts and traction bronchiectasis ( Fig. 19.57 ). When these features are present, HRCT has a  high positive predictive value for the diagnosis of IPF  and recourse to biopsy is seldom necessary. HRCT  appearances may also be sufficiently characteristic to  suggest an alternative diagnosis such as hypersensitivity  pneumonitis (p. 719) or sarcoidosis (p. 709). The pres- ence of pleural plaques may suggest asbestosis (p. 718). Pulmonary function tests classically show a restric- bodies may suggest asbestosis, silica in occupational  fibrosing lung disease \u2022 Urinary calcium excretion: may be useful in sarcoidosis Fig. 19.58 ). However, it is also found  in asbestosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, connective  tissue diseases and drug reactions. It is not uncommon to identify mildly positive anti- (anti-CCP), in which case repeat serological testing  should be performed, as lung disease may precede the  appearance of connective tissue disease. tive defect with reduced lung volumes and gas transfer.  However, lung volumes may be preserved in patients  with concomitant emphysema. Dynamic tests are   useful to document exercise tolerance and demonstrate  exercise-induced arterial hypoxaemia, but as IPF  advances, arterial hypoxaemia and hypocapnia are  present at rest. Bronchoscopy is seldom necessary unless there is a  significant possibility of infection or a malignant process;  lymphocytosis may suggest chronic hypersensitivity  pneumonitis. The tissue samples obtained by transbron- chial lung biopsy are invariably insufficient to be of  value and, if tissue is required, a surgical lung biopsy  should be performed. Lung biopsy should be considered  in cases of diagnostic uncertainty or with atypical fea- tures. UIP is the histological pattern predominantly  prednisolone, azathioprine and N-acetylcysteine had  shown some promise, large studies suggest that it is  mostly ineffective. Disappointing results have also been  reported for trials of colchicine, interferon- \u03b3  1b, bosentan  and etanercept. Subject to further investigation, pirfeni- done may slow the rate of decline of lung function and,  by inference, improve mortality. It remains sensible to  treat gastro-oesophageal reflux and to look for and treat  with experimental agents outside clinical trials should  not be tried. Where appropriate, lung transplantation  should be considered. Oxygen may help breathlessness  but opiates may be required to relieve severe dyspnoea.  The optimum treatment for acute exacerbations is  unknown but corticosteroids should probably be used. The natural history is usually one of steady decline  but some patients are prone to exacerbations, which are  accompanied by an acute deterioration in breathless- ness, disturbed gas exchange, and new ground glass  changes or consolidation on HRCT. In advanced disease,  central cyanosis is detectable and patients may develop  features of right heart failure. A median survival of   3 years is widely quoted; however, the rate of disease  progression varies considerably, from death within a  few months to survival with minimal symptoms for  many years. Serial lung function testing may provide  useful prognostic information, with relative preserva- tion of lung function suggesting longer survival, and  significantly impaired gas transfer and/or desaturation  on exercise heralding a poorer prognosis. The finding of  high numbers of fibroblastic foci on biopsy suggests a  more rapid deterioration. IPF is associated with an  increased risk of carcinoma of the lung. pneumonia (NSIP) is similar to that of IPF, although  patients tend to be women and younger in age. As with  UIP, the condition may present as an isolated idiopathic  pulmonary condition, but an NSIP pattern is often asso- ciated with connective tissue disease, certain drugs,  chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis and HIV infection;  care must be taken to identify these possibilities, as the  pulmonary condition may precede the appearance of  connective tissue disease. HRCT findings are less spe- cific than with IPF and lung biopsy may be required. The  prognosis is significantly better than that of IPF, particu- larly in the cellular form of the condition, and the 5-year  mortality rate is typically less than 15%. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. A Chest X-ray showing  bilateral, predominantly lower-zone and peripheral coarse reticulonodular  shadowing and small lungs.  B The CT scan shows honeycombing and  scarring which is most marked peripherally.  of unknown aetiology characterised by the presence of  non-caseating granulomas ( Fig. 19.59 ). It is more often  described in colder parts of northern Europe. It also  appears to be more common and more severe in those  B Pathology of usual  interstitial pneumonia. A Lung tissue  showing subpleural scarring, most  prominently down the posterior edge of   the lower lobe. This distribution of fibrosis  is typical of usual interstitial pneumonitis.  The fibrosis may be associated with  prominent cystic change known as  \u2018honeycomb lung\u2019.  B Histology showing  severe interstitial fibrosis with loss of the  normal alveolar architecture and the  development of \u2018honeycomb\u2019 cysts.  709 RespiRatoRy disease alleles confer protection from or susceptibility to the  condition. Sarcoidosis occurs less frequently in smokers. from a West Indian or Asian background, while Eskimos,  Arabs and Chinese are rarely affected. The tendency   for sarcoid to present in spring and summer has led   to speculation about the role of infective agents, includ- ing mycobacteria, propionibacteria and viruses, but  the cause remains elusive. Genetic susceptibility is   of cases affect the lungs, but the condition can involve  almost any organ ( Fig. 19.60  and  Box 19.81 ). L\u00f6fgren\u2019s  syndrome \u2013 an acute illness characterised by erythema  nodosum, peripheral arthropathy, uveitis, bilateral hilar  lymphadenopathy (BHL), lethargy and occasionally  fever \u2013 is often seen in young women. Alternatively,  BHL may be detected in an otherwise asymptomatic  individual undergoing a chest X-ray for other purposes.   Presentation of sarcoidosis abnormal liver function tests \u2022 Respiratory and constitutional symptoms (20\u201330%) \u2022 Erythema nodosum and arthralgia (20\u201330%) \u2022 Ocular symptoms (5\u201310%) \u2022 Skin sarcoid (including lupus pernio) (5%) \u2022 Superficial lymphadenopathy (5%) \u2022 Other (1%), e.g. hypercalcaemia, diabetes insipidus, cranial  nerve palsies, cardiac arrhythmias, nephrocalcinosis Fig. 19.59 Sarcoidosis of the lung. Histology showing non-caseating  granulomas (arrows).  Lacrimal gland enlargement Parotid gland enlargement Pachymeningitis Space-occupying lesion Diabetes insipidus Anterior uveitis Sicca syndrome Lymphadenopathy Bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy (BHL) Cardiac arrhythmia Heart block, sudden death Nasal cutaneous sarcoid lesions (lupus pernio) Splenomegaly Cranial nerve palsy Interstitial lung disease Nephrocalcinosis Hypercalciuria Renal stones Granulomatous liver disease Phalangeal bone cysts Skin plaques and nodules Infiltration of scars Arthropathies Osteoporosis Erythema nodosum Mononeuritis multiplex Peripheral neuropathy Arthropathies Osteoporosis 710 Possible systemic involvement in sarcoidosis.Inset (Erythema nodosum)  From Savin et al. 1997 \u2013 see p. 732.  Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases  Systemic corticosteroids in  pulmonary sarcoidosis chest X-ray appearances and symptoms, but there is little  evidence of an improvement in lung function and there are no  data from follow-up beyond 2 years.\u2019 Database of Systematic Reviews, 2005, issue 2. Art. no.: CD001114. manner with cough, exertional breathlessness and radio- graphic infiltrates; chest auscultation is often unremark- able. Fibrosis occurs in 20% of cases of pulmonary  sarcoidosis and may cause a silent loss of lung function.  Pleural disease is uncommon and finger clubbing not a  feature. Complications such as bronchiectasis, aspergil- loma, pneumothorax, pulmonary hypertension and cor  pulmonale have been reported but are rare. tests may be mildly deranged. Hypercalcaemia may be  present (reflecting increased formation of calcitrol \u2013  1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 \u2013 by alveolar macrophages),  particularly if the patient has been exposed to strong  sunlight. Hypercalciuria may also be seen and may lead  to nephrocalcinosis. Serum ACE may provide a non- specific marker of disease activity and can assist in  moni toring the clinical course. Chest radiography has  been used to stage sarcoid ( Box 19.82 ). In patients with  pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary function testing may  show a restrictive defect accompanied by impaired gas  exchange. Exercise tests may reveal oxygen desatura- tion. Bronchoscopy may demonstrate a \u2018cobblestone\u2019  appearance of the mucosa, and bronchial and transbron- chial biopsy usually shows non-caseating granulomas.  The BAL fluid typically contains an increased CD4:CD8  T-cell ratio. Characteristic HRCT appearances include  reticulonodular opacities that follow a perilymphatic  distribution, centred on bronchovascular bundles and  the subpleural areas. The occurrence of erythema nodosum with BHL on  chest X-ray is often sufficient for a confident diagnosis,  without recourse to a tissue biopsy. Similarly, a typical  presentation with classical HRCT features may also be  accepted. Otherwise, the diagnosis should be confirmed  by histological examination of the involved organ. The  presence of anergy (e.g. to tuberculin skin tests) may  support the diagnosis. severe, a short course of corticosteroids. The majority of  patients enjoy spontaneous remission and so, if there is  no evidence of organ damage, systemic corticosteroid  therapy can be withheld for 6 months. However, pred- nisolone (at a starting dose of 20\u201340 mg/day) should be  commenced immediately in the presence of hypercalcae- mia, pulmonary impairment, renal impairment and  uveitis ( Box 19.83 ). Topical steroids may be useful in  cases of mild uveitis, and inhaled corticosteroids have  been used to shorten the duration of systemic cortico- steroid use in asymptomatic parenchymal sarcoid.  Patients should be warned that strong sunlight   might precipitate hypercalcaemia and endanger renal  function. Features suggesting a less favourable outlook include  age over 40 years, Afro-Caribbean ethnicity, persistent  symptoms for more than 6 months, the involvement of  more than three organs, lupus pernio and a stage III/IV  chest X-ray. In patients with severe disease, methotrex- ate (10\u201320 mg/week), azathioprine (50\u2013150 mg/day)  and the use of specific tumour necrosis factor (TNF)- \u03b1 inhibitors ( p. 1102 ) have been effective. Chloroquine,  hydroxychloroquine and low-dose thalidomide may be  useful in cutaneous sarcoid with limited pulmonary  involvement. Selected patients may be referred for con- sideration of single lung transplantation. The overall  mortality is low (1\u20135%) and usually reflects cardiac  involvement or pulmonary fibrosis. nodosum are treated with NSAIDs and, if disease is  inflammatory disease  Chest X-ray changes in sarcoidosis syndromeSee  page 192 . often enlarged\u2022 Often asymptomatic, but may be associated with erythema  nodosum and arthralgia. The majority of cases resolve  spontaneously within 1 yr majority of cases resolve spontaneously hypertension and cor pulmonale =  bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy) connective tissue disordersPulmonary complications of connective tissue disease  are common, and affect the airways, alveoli, pulmonary  vasculature, diaphragm and chest wall muscles, and  chest wall itself ( Box 19.84 ). In some instances, pulmo- nary disease may precede the appearance of the connec- tive tissue disorder. Indirect associations between  connective tissue disorders and respiratory complica- tions include those due to disease in other organs, e.g.  thrombocytopenia causing haemoptysis; pulmonary  toxic effects of drugs used to treat the connective tissue  disorder, e.g. gold and methotrexate; and secondary  infection due to the disease itself, neutropenia or  immuno suppressive drug regimens.  Respiratory complications of connective tissue disorders Airways Parenchyma Pleura Diaphragm and   chest wall pneumothorax Poor healing of  intercostal drain sites Pulmonary fibrosis,  nodules, upper lobe  fibrosis, infections Rheumatoid arthritis Bronchitis, obliterative  bronchiolitis,  bronchiectasis, crico- arytenoid arthritis, stridor Systemic lupus  erythematosus \u2013 Pulmonary fibrosis,  \u2018vasculitic\u2019 infarcts Pleurisy, effusion Diaphragmatic  weakness (shrinking  lungs) Systemic sclerosis Bronchiectasis Pulmonary fibrosis,  aspiration pneumonia \u2013 Cutaneous thoracic  restriction (hidebound  chest) Dermatomyositis/ polymyositis Bronchial carcinoma Pulmonary fibrosis \u2013 Intercostal and  diaphragmatic myopathy Rheumatic fever \u2013 Pneumonia Pleurisy, effusion \u2013 Fig. 19.61 Rheumatoid (necrobiotic) nodules. Thoracic CT just  below the level of the main carina showing the typical appearance of  peripheral pleural-based nodules. The nodule in the left lower lobe shows  characteristic cavitation.  important, accounting for around 10\u201320% of the mortal- ity associated with the condition ( p. 1096 ). The majority  of cases occur within 5 years of the rheumatological  diagnosis but pulmonary manifestations may precede  joint involvement in 10\u201320%. Pulmonary fibrosis is the  most common pulmonary manifestation. All forms of  interstitial disease have been described but NSIP is prob- ably the most frequent. A rare variant of localised upper  lobe fibrosis and cavitation is occasionally seen. Pleural effusion is common, especially in men with  seropositive disease. Effusions are usually small and  unilateral but can be large and bilateral. Most resolve  spontaneously. Biochemical testing shows an exudate  with markedly reduced glucose levels and raised LDH.  Effusions that fail to resolve spontaneously may respond  to a short course of oral prednisolone (30\u201340 mg daily)  but some become chronic. Rheumatoid pulmonary nodules are usually asymp- attributed incorrectly to infection or pulmonary embo- lism. Up to two-thirds of patients have repeated episodes  of pleurisy, with or without effusions. Effusions may be  bilateral and may also involve the pericardium. The most serious manifestation of lupus is an acute  alveolitis, which may be associated with diffuse alveolar  haemorrhage. This condition is life-threatening and  requires immunosuppression. Pulmonary fibrosis is a relatively uncommon mani- tomatic and detected incidentally on imaging. They   are usually multiple and subpleural in site ( Fig. 19.61 ).  Solitary nodules can mimic primary bronchial carci- noma and, when they are multiple, the differential diag- noses include pulmonary metastatic disease. Cavitation  raises the possibility of tuberculosis and predisposes  to pneumothorax. The combination of rheumatoid  nodules and pneumoconiosis is known as Caplan\u2019s syn- drome (p. 717). Bronchitis and bronchiectasis are both more common  in rheumatoid patients. Rarely, the potentially fatal con- dition called obliterative bronchiolitis may develop. Bac- terial lower respiratory tract infections are frequent.  Treatments given for rheumatoid arthritis may also be  relevant: corticosteroid therapy predisposes to infec- tions, methotrexate may cause pulmonary fibrosis, and  anti-TNF therapy has been associated with the reactiva- tion of tuberculosis. festation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Some  patients with SLE present with exertional dyspnoea and  orthopnoea but without overt signs of pulmonary fibro- sis. The chest X-ray reveals elevated diaphragms, and  pulmonary function testing shows reduced lung  volumes. This condition has been described as \u2018shrink- ing lungs\u2019 and has been attributed to diaphragmatic  myopathy. SLE patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are at  increased risk of venous and pulmonary thromboembo- lism and require life-long anticoagulation. than in any other connective tissue disorder and may be  a presenting problem, in which case it is sometimes  Interstitial and infiltrative pulmonary diseases p. 1112 ) eventu- ally develop diffuse pulmonary fibrosis; at necropsy,  more than 90% have evidence of lung fibrosis. In some  patients, it is indolent but when progressive, as in IPF,  the median survival time is around 4 years. Pulmonary  fibrosis is rare in the CREST variant of progressive sys- temic sclerosis but isolated pulmonary hypertension  may develop. Other pulmonary complications include recurrent  aspiration pneumonias secondary to oesophageal  disease. Rarely, sclerosis of the skin of the chest wall  may be so extensive and cicatrising as to restrict chest  wall movement \u2013 this constitutes the so-called \u2018hide- bound chest\u2019. an insidious manner with malaise, fever, weight loss,  breathlessness and unproductive cough. The condition  is more common in middle-aged females. The classical  chest X-ray appearance has been likened to the photo- graphic negative of pulmonary oedema with bilateral,  peripheral and predominantly upper lobe parenchymal  shadowing. The peripheral blood eosinophil count is  almost always very high, and the ESR and total serum  IgE are elevated. BAL reveals a high proportion of eosi- nophils in the lavage fluid. Response to prednisolone  (20\u201340 mg daily) is usually dramatic. Prednisolone   can usually be withdrawn after a few weeks without  relapse, but long-term, low-dose therapy is occasionally  necessary. radio graphic (usually pneumonic) abnormalities and  peripheral blood eosinophilia. The term encompasses a  group of disorders of different aetiology ( Box 19.85 ).  Eosinophils are the predominant cell recovered in  sputum or BAL, and eosinophil products are likely to be  the prime mediators of tissue damage. of a mosquito-borne filarial infection caused by the   tissue-dwelling human nematode  Wuchereria bancrofti  or  Brugia malayi . The condition presents with fever, weight  loss, dyspnoea and asthma-like symptoms. There is  marked peripheral blood eosinophilia and elevation of  total IgE. High antifilarial antibody titres are seen. The  diagnosis may be confirmed by a response to treatment  with diethylcarbamazine (6 mg/kg/day for 3 weeks).  Tropical pulmonary eosinophilia must be distinguished  from infection with  Strongyloides stercoralis  ( p. 370 ),  as corticosteroids may cause life-threatening dissemi- nation in the latter. Ascariasis (\u2018larva migrans\u2019) and  other hookworm infestations are described in detail in  Chapter 13 . (of less than 5 days\u2019 duration) characterised by diffuse  pulmonary infiltrates and hypoxic respiratory failure.  The pathology is usually that of diffuse alveolar damage.  Diagnosis is confirmed by BAL, which characteristically  demonstrates more than 25% eosinophils. The condition  is usually idiopathic but drug reactions should be con- sidered. Corticosteroids invariably induce prompt and  complete resolution.  Pulmonary eosinophilia Ascaris ,  Toxocara ,  Filaria \u2022 Drugs: nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS),  sulfasalazine, imipramine, chlorpropamide,   phenylbutazone \u2022 Fungi: e.g.  Aspergillus fumigatus  causing allergic  bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (p. 697) \u2022 Churg\u2013Strauss syndrome, diagnosed on the basis of  \u2265  4 of  the following features: Wegener\u2019s granulomatosis) is a rare vasculitic and   granulomatous condition ( p. 1118 ). The lung is com- monly involved in systemic forms of the condition but  a limited pulmonary form may also occur. Respiratory  symptoms include cough, haemoptysis and chest pain.  Associated upper respiratory tract manifestations  include nasal discharge and crusting, and otitis media.  Fever, weight loss and anaemia are common. Radiologi- cal features include multiple nodules and cavitation that  may resemble primary or metastatic carcinoma, or a pul- monary abscess. Tissue biopsy confirms the distinctive  pattern of necrotising granulomas and necrotising vas- culitis. Other respiratory complications of granulomato- sis with polyangiitis include tracheal subglottic stenosis  and saddle nose deformity. The differential diagnoses  include mycobacterial and fungal infection and other  forms of pulmonary vasculitis, including polyarteritis  nodosa (pulmonary infarction), microscopic polyangi- itis, Churg\u2013Strauss syndrome (in which there is marked  tissue eosinophilia and association with asthma), necro- tising sarcoid, bronchocentric granulomatosis and lym- phomatoid granulomatosis. Peripheral blood eosinophilia  >  1.5  \u00d7  109/L (or  >  10% of a  total white cell count) Mononeuropathy or polyneuropathy Pulmonary infiltrates Paranasal sinus disease Eosinophilic vasculitis on biopsy of an affected site \u2022 Hypereosinophilic syndrome \u2022 Polyarteritis nodosa ( p. 1117 ; rare) rhage and glomerulonephritis, in which IgG antibodies  RespiRatoRy disease  Drug-induced respiratory disease (see  Box 17.39 ,  p. 499 ). Pulmonary disease usually pre- cedes renal involvement and includes radiographic infil- trates and hypoxia with or without haemoptysis. It  occurs more commonly in men and almost exclusively  in smokers. \u2022 Thrombolytics (streptokinase) \u2022 IV  \u03b2 -adrenoceptor agonists (e.g. for premature  labour) \u2022 Aspirin and opiates (in overdose) and drugs agents \u2013 especially bleomycin, busulfan, mitomycin C,  methotrexate, sulfasalazine sulphonamides, nalidixic acid) \u2022 Drugs used in joint disease (gold, aspirin, penicillamine,  naproxen) \u2022 Cytotoxic drugs (bleomycin, methotrexate, procarbazine) \u2022 Psychotropic drugs (chlorpromazine, dosulepin,   imipramine) \u2022 Anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, phenytoin) \u2022 Others (sulfasalazine, nadolol) methysergide \u2022 Induction of SLE \u2013 phenytoin, hydralazine,   isoniazid accompanied by irradiation of normal lung tissue.  Although delivered in divided doses, the effects are  cumulative. Acute radiation pneumonitis is typically  seen within 6\u201312 weeks and presents with cough and  dyspnoea. This may resolve spontaneously but responds  to corticosteroid treatment. Chronic interstitial fibrosis  may present several months later with symptoms of  exertional dyspnoea and cough. Changes are often con- fined to the area irradiated but may be bilateral. Estab- lished post-irradiation fibrosis does not usually respond  to corticosteroid treatment. The pulmonary effects of  radiation ( p. 277 ) are exacerbated by treatment with  cytotoxic drugs and the phenomenon of \u2018recall pneumo- nitis\u2019 describes the appearance of radiation injury in a  previously irradiated area, when chemotherapy follows  radiotherapy. If the patient survives, there are long-term  risks of lung cancer. \u03b2 -blockers, cholinergic  agonists, aspirin and NSAIDs) \u2022 Idiosyncratic reactions (tamoxifen, dipyridamole)  Interstitial lung disease in old age Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis : the most common interstitial  lung disease, with a worse prognosis. \u2022  Chronic aspiration pneumonitis : must always be  considered in elderly patients presenting with bilateral basal  shadowing on a chest X-ray. \u2022  Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener\u2019s  granulomatosis) : a rare condition but more common in old  age. Renal involvement is more common at presentation and  upper respiratory problems are fewer. \u2022  Asbestosis : symptoms may only appear in old age because  of the prolonged latent period between exposure and  disease. \u2022  Drug-induced interstitial lung disease : more common,  presumably because of the increased chance of exposure to  multiple drugs. \u2022  Rarer interstitial disease : sarcoidosis, idiopathic pulmonary  haemosiderosis, alveolar proteinosis and eosinophilic  pneumonia rarely present. \u2022  Increased dyspnoea : coexistent muscle weakness, chest  Box 19.86 ). Pulmonary fibrosis may occur in response to a  variety of drugs, but is seen most frequently with bleo- mycin, methotrexate, amiodarone and nitrofurantoin.  Eosinophilic pulmonary reactions can also be caused by  drugs. The pathogenesis may be an immune reaction  similar to that in hypersensitivity pneumonitis, which  specifically attracts large numbers of eosinophils into the  lungs. This type of reaction is well described as a rare  reaction to a variety of antineoplastic agents (e.g. bleo- mycin), antibiotics (e.g. sulphonamides), sulfasalazine  and the anticonvulsants phenytoin and carbamazepine.  Patients usually present with breathlessness, cough and  fever. The chest X-ray characteristically shows patchy  shadowing. Most cases resolve completely on with- drawal of the drug, but if the reaction is severe, rapid  resolution can be obtained with corticosteroids. Drugs may also cause other lung diseases, such as  asthma, pulmonary haemorrhage and pleural disease.  An ARDS-like syndrome of acute non-cardiogenic pul- monary oedema may present with dramatic onset of  breathlessness, severe hypoxaemia and signs of alveolar  oedema on the chest X-ray. This syndrome has been  reported most frequently in cases of opiate overdose in  drug addicts ( p. 219 ) but also after salicylate overdose,  and occasionally after therapeutic doses of drugs,  including hydrochlorothiazides and some cytotoxic  agents. may all exacerbate dyspnoea associated with interstitial lung  disease. \u2022  Surgical lung biopsy : often inappropriate in the very frail. A  findings alone. Box 19.88 .  Rare interstitial lung diseases Presentation Chest X-ray Course haemosiderosis Haemoptysis, breathlessness,  anaemia Bilateral infiltrates, often  perihilar Diffuse pulmonary fibrosis Rapidly progressive in children Slow progression or remission in  adults Death from massive pulmonary  haemorrhage or cor pulmonale and  respiratory failure Alveolar proteinosis Breathlessness and cough Occasionally fever, chest  pain and haemoptysis Diffuse bilateral shadowing,  often more pronounced in  the hilar regions Air bronchogram Spontaneous remission in one-third Whole-lung lavage or granulocyte  macrophage\u2013colony stimulating  factor (GM\u2013CSF) therapy may be  effective Langerhans cell histiocytosis  (histiocytosis X) Breathlessness, cough,  pneumothorax Diffuse interstitial shadowing  progressing to honeycombing Course unpredictable but may  progress to respiratory failure Smoking cessation may be followed  by significant improvement Poor response to  immunosuppressive treatment shadowing of diffuse  interstitial fibrosis Neurofibromatosis Breathlessness and cough in  a patient with multiple organ  involvement with  neurofibromas including skin Slow progression to death from  respiratory failure Poor response to corticosteroid  therapy Alveolar microlithiasis May be asymptomatic Breathlessness and cough Slowly progressive to cor pulmonale  and respiratory failure May stabilise in some Diffuse calcified  micronodular shadowing  more pronounced in the  lower zones Lymphangioleiomyomatosis Haemoptysis, breathlessness,  pneumothorax and chylous  effusion in females Diffuse bilateral shadowing CT shows characteristic  thin-walled cysts with  well-defined walls  throughout both lungs Progressive to death within 10 yrs Oestrogen ablation and  progesterone therapy of doubtful  value Consider lung transplantation Pulmonary tuberous sclerosis Very similar to lymphangioleiomyomatosis, except occasionally occurs in men  Occupational asthma LUNG DISEASE \u2022 Aldehydes \u2022 Wood dust \u2022 Flour and grain dust \u2022 Colophony and fluxes \u2022 Latex asthma schemes\u2022 Paint sprayers \u2022 Bakers and pastry-makers \u2022 Nurses \u2022 Chemical workers lung disease is a particularly important area of respira- tory medicine. Occupational lung disease is common  and, in addition to the challenges of its diagnosis and  management, often involves discussions about the  workplace and, in some circumstances, lawyers. Many  countries encourage the registration of cases of occupa- tional lung disease. rhinoconjunctivitis often precede the development of  asthma. When OA follows exposure to high molecular  weight proteins, sensitisation to the agent may be dem- onstrated by skin testing or measurement of specific IgE.  Confirmation of OA should be sought from lung func- tion tests, which usually involves serial recording of  peak flow at work, at least 4 times per day for at least   3 weeks and, if possible, including a period away from  work ( Fig. 19.62 ). In certain circumstances, specific chal- lenge tests are required to confirm the diagnosis. It may be possible to remove the worker from   individual of working age who develops new-onset  asthma, particularly if the patient reports an improve- ment in asthma symptoms during periods away from  work, e.g. at weekends and on holiday. Workers in  certain occupations appear to be at particularly high risk  ( Box 19.89 ) and the condition is more common in  smokers and atopic individuals. Depending on the  intensity of exposure, asthmatic symptoms usually  develop within the first year of employment but are  the implicated agent but when this is not feasible,  50% 0% 20% 600 550 500 variation of PEF Peak flow (L/min) 450 400 t w t f s s m t w t f s s m t w t f s s m t w t f s s m t w t f s s Peak flow readings in occupational asthma. Subjects with suspected occupational asthma are asked to perform 2-hourly serial peak  flows at, and away from, work. The maximum, mean and minimum values are plotted daily. Days at work are indicated by the shaded areas. The diurnal  variation is displayed at the top. In this example, a period away from work is followed by a marked improvement in peak flow readings and a reduction in  diurnal variation.  workplace hygiene may allow patients to retain their job  and income. Specialist follow-up in such situations is  highly advisable. A favourable prognosis is indicated by  a short history of symptoms and normal lung function  at diagnosis. Where reduction or avoidance of exposure  fails to bring about resolution, the general management  does not differ from that of other forms of asthma. breathlessness, accompanied by a drop in lung function;  classically, these are most severe on the first day of the  working week (\u2018Monday fever\u2019), or on return to work  following a period away. As the week progresses, symp- toms improve and the fall in lung function becomes less  dramatic. Continued exposure leads to the development  of persistent symptoms and a progressive decline in  FEV1 similar to that observed in COPD. syndromeReactive airways dysfunction syndrome or acute irritant- induced asthma refers to the development of a persistent  asthma-like syndrome following the inhalation of an  airway irritant: typically, a single specific exposure to a  gas, smoke, fume or vapour in very high concentrations.  Pulmonary function tests show airflow obstruction and  airway hyper-reactivity, and the management is similar  to that of asthma. Once developed, the condition often  persists but it is common for symptoms to improve over  years. Pneumoconiosis can be defined as a permanent altera- tion of lung structure due to the inhalation of mineral  dust and the tissue reactions of the lung to its presence,  excluding bronchitis and emphysema ( Box 19.90 ). Not  all dusts are pathogenic. For example, silica is highly  fibrogenic, whereas iron (siderosis), tin (stannosis) and  barium (baritosis) are almost inert. Beryllium causes an  interstitial granulomatous disease similar to sarcoidosis.  In many types of pneumoconiosis, a long period of dust  exposure is required before radiological changes appear,  and these may precede clinical symptoms. The most  important pneumoconioses include coal worker\u2019s pneu- moconiosis, silicosis and asbestosis. pulmonary diseaseWhilst tobacco smoking remains the most important  preventable cause of COPD, there is increasing recogni- tion that other noxious particles and gases can both  cause or aggravate the condition. Occupational COPD is  recognised in workers exposed to coal dust, crystalline  silica and cadmium. In many parts of the developing  world, indoor air pollution from the burning of biomass  fuels in confined spaces used for cooking contributes to  the development of COPD. longed inhalation of coal dust. Dust-laden alveolar  macro phages aggregate to form macules in or near the  centre of the secondary pulmonary lobule and a fibrotic  reaction ensues, resulting in the appearance of scattered  discrete fibrotic lesions. Classification is based on the  size and extent of radiographic nodularity. Simple coal  worker\u2019s pneumoconiosis (SCWP) refers to the appear- ance of small radiographic nodules in an otherwise  asymptomatic individual. SCWP does not impair   lung function and, once exposure ceases, will seldom  progress. Progressive massive fibrosis (PMF) refers to  the formation of conglomerate masses (mainly in the  upper lobes), which may cavitate. The development of  who are exposed to cotton brack (dried leaf and plant  debris). An acute form of the disease may occur but,  more typically, byssinosis develops after 20\u201330 years\u2019  exposure. Typical symptoms include chest tightness or   Lung diseases caused by exposure to inorganic dusts Occupation Description Characteristic pathological features Coal mining Coal worker\u2019s  pneumoconiosis Focal and interstitial \ufb01brosis, centrilobular  emphysema, progressive massive \ufb01brosis Silica Mining, quarrying, stone dressing, metal grinding,  pottery, boiler scaling Silicosis Asbestos Demolition, ship breaking, manufacture of \ufb01reproof  insulating materials, pipe and boiler lagging Asbestos-related  disease Pleural plaques, diffuse pleural thickening, acute  benign pleurisy, carcinoma of lung, interstitial  \ufb01brosis, mesothelioma Iron oxide Arc welding Siderosis Mineral deposition only Tin oxide Tin mining Stannosis Tin-laden macrophages Beryllium Aircraft, atomic energy and electronics industries Berylliosis Granulomas, interstitial \ufb01brosis Box 19.88 , p. 715). Radiological features are similar to those of   be black (melanoptysis), and breathlessness. The chest  X-ray appearances may be confused with lung cancer,  tuberculosis and granulomatosis with polyangiitis. PMF  may progress even after coal dust exposure ceases, and  in extreme cases leads to respiratory failure and right  ventricular failure. Caplan\u2019s syndrome describes the coexistence of rheu- matoid arthritis and rounded fibrotic nodules 0.5\u20135 cm  in diameter. They show pathological features similar to  a rheumatoid nodule, including central necrosis, pali- sading histiocytes, and a peripheral rim of lymphocytes  and plasma cells. This syndrome may also occur in other  types of pneumoconiosis. coal worker\u2019s pneumoconiosis, with multiple well- circumscribed 3\u20135-mm nodular opacities, predomi- nantly in the mid- and upper zones. As the disease  progresses, PMF may develop ( Fig. 19.63 ). Enlargement  of the hilar glands with an \u2018egg-shell\u2019 pattern of calcifica- tion is said to be characteristic but is uncommon and  non-specific. Silica is highly fibrogenic and the disease  is usually progressive, even when exposure ceases;  hence the affected worker should always be removed  from further exposure. Individuals with silicosis are at  increased risk of tuberculosis (silicotuberculosis), lung  cancer and COPD. Associations with renal and connec- tive tissue disease have also been described. usually in the form of quartz, by workers cutting,   grinding and polishing stone. Classic silicosis is most  common and usually manifests after 10\u201320 years of   continuous silica exposure, during which time the  patient remains asymptomatic. Accelerated silicosis is  associated with a much shorter duration of dust expo- sure (typically 5\u201310 years), and may present as early as  1 year of exposure; as the name suggests, it follows a  more aggressive course. Intense exposure to very fine  crystalline silica dust can cause a more acute disease \u2013  neering and dentistry. The presence of cough, progres- sive breathlessness, night sweats and arthralgia in a  worker exposed to dusts, fumes or vapours containing  beryllium should raise suspicions of berylliosis. The  radiographic appearances are similar in type and distri- bution to sarcoid, and biopsy shows sarcoid-like granu- lomas. The diagnosis may be confirmed by specialised  tests of lymphocyte function. B Silicosis. A A chest X-ray from a patient with silicosis, showing the presence of small rounded nodules predominantly seen in the upper  zones.  B HRCT from the same patient, demonstrating conglomeration of nodules with posterior bias.  RespiRatoRy disease one-fifth of asbestos workers but many episodes are   subclinical and pass unreported. When symptomatic,  patients present with features of pleurisy, including  mild fever and systemic disturbance. The diagnosis  necessitates the exclusion of other known causes of pleu- risy and pleural effusion. Repeated episodes may be  followed by the development of diffuse (visceral) pleural  thickening. oxide pneumoconiosis in welders and other iron foundry  workers. Baritosis may be seen in barium process  workers, and stannosis in tin refining; haematite lung  occurs in iron ore miners and resembles silicosis but  stains the lung red. Diamond polishers may develop  hard metal disease; this condition is similar to UIP but  the pathology shows a giant cell interstitial pneumonia.  Popcorn worker\u2019s lung is a form of obliterative bronchio- litis following ingestion of diacetyl used in butter  flavouring. pleural diseases pleura and, if sufficiently extensive, may cause restric- tive lung function impairment, exertional breathlessness  and, occasionally, persistent chest pain. The typical  appearances of DPT on chest X-ray include thickening  of the pleura along the chest wall and obliteration of   the costophrenic angles. Earlier manifestations of   DPT, including parenchymal bands, may be detected   by CT ( Fig. 19.65 ). Occasionally, shrinkage of the   visceral pleura results in the development of \u2018round   atelectasis\u2019. There is no treatment and the condition   may progress in around one-third of individuals. In  exceptionally severe cases, surgical decortication may   be considered. A pleural biopsy may be required to  exclude mesothelioma. Asbestos is a naturally occurring silicate. Its fibres may  be classified as either chrysotile (white asbestos), which  accounts for 90% of the world\u2019s production, or serpen- tine (crocidolite or blue asbestos, and amosite or brown  asbestos). Its favourable thermal and chemical insula- tion properties led to its extensive use by the shipbuild- ing and construction industries throughout the latter  part of the twentieth century. Exposure to asbestos may  be followed by the development of both pleural and  pulmonary disease, after a lengthy latent period. past asbestos exposure, and are discrete circumscribed  areas of hyaline fibrosis that may occur on the parietal  pleura of the chest wall, diaphragm, pericardium or  mediastinum. They are virtually always asymptomatic  and are usually identified as an incidental finding on a  chest X-ray ( Fig. 19.64 ) or thoracic CT scan, particularly  when partially calcified. They do not cause any impair- ment of lung function and are benign. Thoracic CT scan showing right-sided pleural  thickening and an associated parenchymal band. Fig. 19.64 Asbestos-related benign pleural plaques. Chest X-ray  showing extensive calcified pleural plaques (\u2018candle wax\u2019 appearance  \u2013 arrows), particularly marked on the diaphragm and lateral pleural  surfaces.  718 development generally requires substantial exposure  over several years, and is rare with low-level or bystander  exposure. In common with other fibrosing lung diseases,  asbestosis usually presents with exertional breathless- ness and fine, late inspiratory crackles over the lower  zones. Finger clubbing may be present. Pulmonary func- tion tests and HRCT appearances are similar to those of  UIP. These features, accompanied by a history of sub- stantial asbestos exposure, are generally sufficient to  establish the diagnosis; lung biopsy is rarely necessary.  When biopsy is performed, the diagnosis is made when  alveolar septal fibrosis is accompanied by an average of  at least two asbestos bodies per square cm of lung tissue.  In cases where there is doubt, asbestos fibre counts may   Examples of lung diseases caused by  organic dusts Source Antigen/agent Aspergillus fumigatus Farmer\u2019s lung * Mouldy hay,  straw, grain Avian serum proteins Bird fancier\u2019s  lung * diagnosis. Asbestosis is usually slowly progressive but tends to  be more indolent and associated with a better prognosis  than UIP; in advanced cases, however, respiratory  failure and cor pulmonale may still develop. About 40%  of patients (who usually smoke) develop carcinoma of  the lung and 10% may develop mesothelioma. proteins and  feathers Mouldy maltings Aspergillus clavatus Malt worker\u2019s  lung * Mouldy cheese Aspergillus clavatus  Penicillium casei Cheese worker\u2019s  lung * Maple bark  stripper\u2019s lung * Bark from stored  maple Cryptostroma  corticale Saxophone  player\u2019s lung * Reed of any  wind instrument Fusarium  spp. Penicillium  spp. Cladosporium  spp. or, less commonly, the peritoneum. Its occurrence almost  invariably suggests past asbestos exposure, which may  be low-level. There is typically a long latent interval  between first exposure and the onset of clinical manifes- tations, such that, even though asbestos control   measures have now been implemented, deaths from  mesothelioma continue to increase. Pleural mesothelioma typically presents with increas- Textile industries Cotton, flax, hemp  dust Contamination of  air conditioning Thermophilic  actinomycetes (\u2018humidifier\u2019)  fever unremitting chest pain when there is involvement of the  chest wall. As the tumour progresses, it encases the  underlying lung and may invade into the parenchyma,  the mediastinum and the pericardium. Metastatic  disease, although often not clinically detectable in life, is  a common finding on post-mortem. Mesothelioma is almost invariably fatal. Highly  selected patients may be considered for radical surgery  but, in the majority, therapy is invariably directed  towards palliation of symptoms. The use of chemother- apy may improve quality of life and is accompanied by  a small survival benefit of around 3 months. Radiother- apy can be used to control pain and limit the risk of  tumour seeding at biopsy sites. Pleural effusions are  managed with drainage and pleurodesis. Typical figures  for survival from onset of symptoms are around   16 months for epithelioid tumours, 10 months for sarco- matoid tumours and 15 months for biphasic tumours,  with only a minority of patients surviving longer periods. characterised by the influx of mononuclear cells and  foamy histiocytes. The presence of poorly formed non- caseating granulomas in the alveolar walls suggests that  type IV responses are also important. The distribution  of the inflammatory infiltrate is predominantly peri- bronchiolar, which helps to distinguish the appearances  from non-specific interstitial pneumonia and lym- phocytic interstitial pneumonia. Chronic forms may be  accompanied by fibrosis. For reasons that remain uncer- tain, there is a lower incidence of hypersensitivity pneu- monitis in smokers than non-smokers. disorders ( Box 19.91 ). Disease results from a local  immune response to animal proteins, or fungal antigens  in mouldy vegetable matter. Hypersensitivity pneumo- nitis is the most common of these conditions. more indolent pattern, depending on the antigen load.  For example, the farmer exposed to mouldy hay after it  was gathered and stored damp during a wet summer,  or the pigeon fancier cleaning a large pigeon loft, will  report influenza-like symptoms within a few hours,  accompanied by cough, breathlessness and wheeze. On  the other hand, the individual with low-level antigen  exposure, such as to an indoor pet bird, will typically  present in a more indolent fashion with slowly progres- sive breathlessness, and, in some cases, established  fibrosis may be present by the time the disease is recog- nised. Chest auscultation typically reveals widespread  end-inspiratory crackles and squeaks. allergic alveolitis) results from the inhalation of a wide  variety of organic antigens, which give rise to a diffuse  immune complex reaction in the alveoli and bronchioles.  Common causes include farmer\u2019s lung and bird fancier\u2019s  lung. Other examples are shown in  Box 19.91 . HP is not  exclusively occupational or environmental, and other  important causes include medications (see  Box 19.86 ). The pathology of hypersensitivity pneumonitis is  consistent with both type III and type IV immunological  mechanisms ( p. 87 ). Precipitating IgG antibodies may be  detected in the serum and a type III Arthus reaction is  believed to occur in the lung, where the precipitation of  immune complexes results in activation of complement  and an inflammatory response in the alveolar walls,  ill-defined patchy airspace shadowing which, given   the systemic features, may be confused with pneumonia.  HRCT is more likely to show bilateral ground glass  shadowing and areas of consolidation superimposed   on small centrilobar nodular opacities with an upper  and middle lobe predominance ( Fig. 19.66 ). In more   Predictive factors in the identification of  hypersensitivity pneumonitis \u2022 Positive precipitating antibodies to offending antigen \u2022 Recurrent episodes of symptoms \u2022 Inspiratory crackles on examination \u2022 Symptoms occurring 4\u20138 hrs after exposure \u2022 Weight loss +  T lymphocytes, and transbronchial  biopsy can occasionally provide sufficient tissue for a  confident diagnosis; however, open lung biopsy may be  necessary ( Fig. 19.66B ). inciting agent. In some cases, however, this may be   difficult, either because of implications for livelihood  (e.g. farmers) or enthusiasm for hobbies (e.g. pigeon  breeders). Dust masks with appropriate filters may   minimise exposure and be combined with methods of  reducing levels of antigen (e.g. drying hay before  storage). In acute cases, prednisolone should be given  for 3\u20134 weeks, starting with an oral dose of 40 mg per  day. Severely hypoxaemic patients may require high- concentration oxygen therapy initially. Most patients  recover completely but, if unchecked, fibrosis may  progress to cause severe respiratory disability, hypoxae- mia, pulmonary hypertension, cor pulmonale and even- tually death. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis. A HRCT showing typical  patchy ground glass opacification.  B Histology shows evidence of an  interstitial inflammatory infiltrate in the lung, expanding alveolar walls, with  a peribronchial distribution. Within the infiltrate, there are foci of small,  poorly defined non-caseating granulomas (insert), which often lie adjacent  to the airways. In this case, there is little in the way of established lung  fibrosis, but this can be marked.  loss, linear opacities and architectural distortion, appear.  In common with other fibrotic diseases, pulmonary  function tests show a restrictive ventilatory defect   with reduced lung volumes and impaired gas transfer,  and dynamic tests may detect oxygen desaturation. In  more advanced disease, type I respiratory failure is  present at rest. a result of contaminated humidifiers or air-conditioning  units that release a fine spray of microorganisms into the  atmosphere. The illness is characterised by self-limiting  fever and breathlessness; permanent sequelae are  unusual. An identical syndrome can also develop after  disturbing an accumulation of mouldy hay, compost or  mulch. So-called \u2018hot tub lung\u2019 appears to be attributable  to  Mycobacterium avium . Outbreaks of HP in workers  using metalworking fluids appear to be linked to  Aci- netobacter  or  Ochrobactrum . are at increased risk of lung cancer particularly if they  smoke tobacco. Increased risks of lung cancer have also  been reported in workers who develop silicosis and  those exposed to radon gas, beryllium, diesel exhaust  fumes, cadmium, chromium, and dust and fumes from  coke plants. tic clinical and radiological features, together with the  identification of a potential source of antigen in the  patient\u2019s home or place of work ( Box 19.92 ). It may be  supported by a positive serum precipitin test or by more  sensitive serological tests. However, the presence of pre- cipitins without the other features does not signify a  diagnosis; the great majority of farmers with positive  precipitins do not have farmer\u2019s lung, and up to 15% of  pigeon breeders may have positive serum precipitins yet  remain healthy. Where HP is suspected but the cause is not readily  apparent, a visit to the patient\u2019s home or workplace  should be made. Occasionally, if an agent previously  unrecognised as causing HP is suspected, provocation  testing may be necessary to prove the diagnosis; if posi- tive, inhalation of the relevant antigen is followed after  3\u20136 hours by pyrexia and a reduction in VC and gas  transfer factor. BAL fluid usually shows an increase in  Occupational and environmental exposures may be  closely linked to the development of pneumonia.  Welders appear to be at increased risk of pneumonia  and pneumococcal vaccine is currently recommended  for those in the trade. Farm, abattoir and hide factory  workers may be exposed to  Coxiella burnetii , the  \u2022 Does the patient have risk factors for PE? \u2022 Are there any alternative diagnoses that can explain  the patient\u2019s presentation? Clinical presentation varies, depending on number,  size and distribution of emboli and on underlying car- diorespiratory reserve ( Box 19.93 ). A recognised risk  factor is present in 80\u201390% ( Box 19.94 ). The presence of  one or more risk factors increases the risk further still.  Risk factors for venous thromboembolism from milk, urine, faeces and amniotic fluid, or may be  transmitted by cattle ticks or contaminated dust from the  milking floor, or by drinking milk that is inadequately  pasteurised. Birds (often parrots or budgerigars) infected  with  Chlamydia psittaci  can cause psittacosis in humans.  Sewage workers, farmers, animal handlers and veteri- narians run an increased risk of contracting leptospiral  pneumonia. Contact with rabbits, hares, muskrats   and ground squirrels is associated with tularaemic  pneumonia, caused by  Francisella tularensis  ( p. 340 ).  Anthrax (wool-sorter\u2019s disease,  p. 346 ) may occur in  workers exposed to infected hides, hair, bristle, bone- meal and animal carcases. \u2022 Post-operative intensive  surgery care \u2022 Other disabling disease \u2022 Congestive cardiac failure \u2022 Stroke/spinal cord injury \u2022 Varicose veins \u2022 Concurrent chemotherapy \u2022 Advanced/metastatic p. 1008 ) and pulmonary  embolism (PE) are included under this heading. The  majority (80%) of pulmonary emboli arise from the  propagation of lower limb DVT. Rare causes include  septic emboli (from endocarditis affecting the tricuspid  or pulmonary valves), tumour (especially choriocarci- noma), fat, air, amniotic fluid and placenta. The incidence of VTE in the community is unknown;  it occurs in approximately 1% of all patients admitted to  hospital and accounts for around 5% of in-hospital  deaths. It is a common mode of death in patients with  cancer, stroke and pregnancy. ( p. 1054 ) \u2022 Previous proven VTE \u2022 Immobility \u2022 Trauma consider:  Features of pulmonary thromboemboli Acute small/medium PE Chronic PE artery  \u2192  infarction  \u00b1  effusion Pathophysiology Major haemodynamic effects:  \u2193 cardiac output; acute right heart  failure Chronic occlusion of pulmonary  microvasculature, right heart  failure Pleuritic chest pain, restricted  breathing, haemoptysis Symptoms Faintness or collapse, crushing  central chest pain, apprehension,  severe dyspnoea Exertional dyspnoea. Late  symptoms of pulmonary  hypertension or right heart  failure Tachycardia, pleural rub, raised  hemidiaphragm, crackles, effusion  (often blood-stained), low-grade  fever May be minimal early in disease.  Later: RV heave, loud P2.  Terminal: signs of right heart  failure Signs Major circulatory collapse:  tachycardia, hypotension,  \u2191 JVP,  RV gallop rhythm, loud P2, severe  cyanosis,  \u2193 urinary output Chest X-ray Usually normal. May be subtle  oligaemia Pleuropulmonary opacities, pleural  effusion, linear shadows, raised  hemidiaphragm Enlarged pulmonary artery trunk,  enlarged heart, prominent right  ventricle Sinus tachycardia RV hypertrophy and strain ECG S1Q3T3 anterior T-wave inversion,  RBBB Exertional  \u2193 Pa O2 or desaturation  on formal exercise testing Arterial blood gases Markedly abnormal with  \u2193 Pa O2and  \u2193 Pa CO2. Metabolic acidosis May be normal or  \u2193 Pa O2 or  \u2193 Pa CO2 Myocardial infarction, pericardial  tamponade, aortic dissection Pneumonia, pneumothorax,  musculoskeletal chest pain Other causes of pulmonary  hypertension =  jugular venous pressure; PE  =  pulmonary embolism; RBBB  =  right bundle branch block; RV  =  right ventricular) RespiRatoRy disease Pulmonary opacities rarely lobar or segmental, can cavitate) Wedge-shaped opacity Oligaemia of lung field Enlarged pulmonary artery Horizontal linear opacities (bilateral and usually in lower zones) Elevated hemidiaphragm Pleural effusion (usually blood-stained  on aspiration) Features of pulmonary thromboembolism/infarction on chest X-ray. suspected Assess clinical risk Measure D-dimer levels D-dimer +ve D-dimer \u2013ve Risk high D-dimer \u2013ve Risk low Risk high Treat . . Not DVT/PE Confirm diagnosis     veins \u00b1  \u2022 CT pulmonary angiogram or  \u2022 V/Q scan     (no previous     cardiopulmonary     disease) Algorithm for the investigation of patients with  suspected pulmonary thromboembolism. Clinical risk is based on the  presence of risk factors for venous thromboembolism and the probability of  another diagnosis.  impairment, and CTPA avoided in those with a history  of allergy to iodinated contrast media. Ventilation\u2013perfusion scanning is seldom used now- significant cardiopulmonary disease. Colour Doppler  ultrasound of the leg veins remains the investigation of  choice in patients with suspected DVT, but may also be  used in patients with suspected PE, particularly if there  are clinical signs in a limb, as many will have identifiable  proximal thrombus in the leg veins. been described ( Fig. 19.67 ) but the chest X-ray is most  useful in excluding key differential diagnoses, e.g. pneu- monia or pneumothorax. Normal appearances in an  acutely breathless and hypoxaemic patient should raise  the suspicion of PE, as should bilateral changes in a  patient presenting with unilateral pleuritic chest pain. The ECG is often normal but is useful in excluding  other important differential diagnoses, such as acute  myocardial infarction and pericarditis. The most  common findings in PE include sinus tachycardia and  anterior T-wave inversion but these are non-specific;  larger emboli may cause right heart strain revealed by  an S1Q3T3 pattern, ST-segment and T-wave changes, or  the appearance of right bundle branch block. Arterial blood gases typically show a reduced  Pa O2and a normal or low  Pa CO2, and an increased alveolar\u2013 arterial oxygen gradient, but may be normal in a signifi- cant minority. A metabolic acidosis may be seen in acute  massive PE with cardiovascular collapse. D-dimer is a specific degradation product released  into the circulation when cross-linked fibrin undergoes  endogenous fibrinolysis ( p. 1000 ). An elevated D-dimer  is of limited value, as it may be raised in a variety of  conditions including PE, myocardial infarction, pneu- monia and sepsis. However, low levels ( <  500 ng/mL,  measured by ELISA), particularly where clinical risk is  low, have a high negative predictive value and further  investigation is usually unnecessary ( Fig. 19.68 ). The  D-dimer result should be disregarded in high-risk  patients, as further investigation is mandatory even if it  is normal. Other circulating markers that reflect right  ventricular micro-infarction, such as troponin I and  brain natriuretic peptide, are under investigation. CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA,  Fig. 19.69 ) is the  first-line diagnostic test. It has the advantages of visual- ising the distribution and extent of the emboli, or high- lighting an alternative diagnosis, such as consolidation,  pneumothorax or aortic dissection. The sensitivity of CT  scanning may be increased by simultaneous visualisa- tion of the femoral and popliteal veins, although this is  not widely practised. As the contrast media may be   VTE and pregnancy Maternal mortality : VTE is the leading cause. \u2022  CTPA : may be performed safely with fetal shielding  (0.01\u20130.06 mGy). It is important to consider the risk of  radiation to breast tissue (particularly if there is a family  history of breast carcinoma) and the risk of iodinated  contrast media to mother and fetus (neonatal  \u2022  \ufffd hypothyroidism). \ufffd V / Q scanning : greater radiation dose to fetus (0.11\u2013 0.22 mGy) but less to maternal breast tissue. \u2022  In utero radiation exposure : estimated incidence of  childhood malignancy is about 1 in 16 000 per mGy. \u2022  Warfarin : teratogenic, so VTE should be treated with LMWH  during pregnancy. Fig. 19.69 CT pulmonary angiogram. The arrow points to a saddle  embolism in the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery.  differential diagnosis and assessment of acute circula- tory collapse ( p. 544 ). Acute dilatation of the right heart  is usually present in massive PE, and thrombus (embo- lism in transit) may be visible. Alternative diagnoses,  including left ventricular failure, aortic dissection and  pericardial tamponade, can also be identified. Conventional pulmonary angiography has been  largely superseded by CTPA but is still useful in selected  settings or to deliver catheter-based therapies. saving. Sufficient oxygen should be given to hypox- aemic patients to maintain arterial oxygen saturation  above 90%. Circulatory shock should be treated with  intravenous fluids or plasma expander, but inotropic  agents are of limited value as the hypoxic dilated right  ventricle is already close to maximally stimulated by  endogenous catecholamines. Diuretics and vasodilators  should also be avoided, as they will reduce cardiac  output. Opiates may be necessary to relieve pain and  distress but should be used with caution in the hypoten- sive patient. External cardiac massage may be successful  in the moribund patient by dislodging and breaking up  a large central embolus. most commonly used oral anticoagulant. Therapy is ini- tiated with a high loading dose, followed by a mainte- nance dose based on the international normalised ratio  (INR). LMWH should not be discontinued until the INR  is 2 or more for at least 24 hours. Due to the narrow  therapeutic index of warfarin and its propensity to inter- act with other drugs and food, regular measurement   of the INR is required throughout the duration of   anticoagulation. Newer thrombin or activated factor X  inhibitors offer more predictable dosing and have   no requirement for coagulation monitoring; they may  ultimately replace warfarin. Decisions regarding the duration of anticoagulation  represent a balance between the risk and consequences  of recurrence, and the risks of prolonged anticoagula- tion. In patients with an identifiable and reversible risk  factor, anticoagulation may be safely discontinued fol- lowing 3 months of therapy. Those with persistent pro- thrombotic risks or a history of previous emboli should  be anticoagulated for life. In patients with cancer- associated VTE, LMWH should be continued for at   least 6 months before switching to warfarin. For patients  with unprovoked VTE, the appropriate duration of   anticoagulation should be at least 3 months, but pro- longed therapy should be considered in males (who  have a higher risk of recurrent VTE than females), those  in whom the D-dimer remains elevated when measured  1 month after stopping anticoagulation, those with post- thrombotic syndrome, and those in whom recurrent   PE may be fatal. The disadvantages of prolonged anti- coagulation range from the inconvenience of long-term  INR monitoring to the more serious risk of major   haemorrhage (around 3% per year). Life-threatening  haemorrhage occurs in around 1% of cases per year and  fatal bleeding in 0.25% cases per year. patients with a high or intermediate probability of PE,  but may be safely withheld in those with low clinical  probability, pending investigation. Heparin reduces  further propagation of clot and the risk of further emboli,  and lowers mortality. It is most easily administered as  subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).  The dose is based on the patient\u2019s weight and there is  usually no requirement to monitor tests of coagulation  ( p. 1018 ). Treatment with LMWH should continue for at  least 5 days, during which time an oral anticoagulant is  commenced. Fondaparinux, a synthetic pentasaccharide  closely related to heparin, represents an alternative to  LMWH. Warfarin \u2013 a vitamin K antagonist \u2013 remains the  acute massive PE accompanied by cardiogenic shock. In  the absence of shock, the benefits are less clear but  thrombolysis may be considered in those presenting  with right ventricular dilatation and hypokinesis   or severe hypoxaemia. Patients must be screened care- fully for haemorrhagic risk, as there is a high risk of  intra cranial haemorrhage. Surgical pulmonary embolec- tomy may be considered in selected patients but carries  a high mortality.  Thromboembolic disease in old age 19.97  Classification of pulmonary hypertension Risk : rises by a factor of 2.5 over the age of 60 yrs. \u2022  Prophylaxis for VTE : should be considered in all older  \u2022 Secondary to: connective tissue disease (limited cutaneous  patients who are immobile as a result of acute illness, except  when this is due to acute stroke. \u2022  Association with cancer : the prevalence of cancer among  systemic sclerosis), congenital systemic to pulmonary shunts,  portal hypertension, HIV infection, exposure to various drugs  or toxins, and persistent pulmonary hypertension of the  newborn those with DVT increases with age but the relative risk of  malignancy with DVT falls; therefore extensive investigation  is not justified if initial assessment reveals no evidence of an  underlying neoplasm. \u2022  Warfarin : older patients are more sensitive to the  \u2022 Left-sided valvular heart disease \u2022 Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease \u2022 Pulmonary capillary haemangiomatosis anticoagulant effects of warfarin, partly due to the concurrent  use of other drugs and the presence of other pathology.  Life-threatening or fatal bleeds on warfarin are significantly  more common in those aged over 80 yrs. \u2022  Chronic immobility : long-term anticoagulant therapy is not  \u2022 Chronic exposure to high  required as there is no associated increase in  thromboembolism. the respiratory system and/or hypoxaemia\u2022 COPD \u2022 Diffuse parenchymal lung  altitude disease \u2022 Sleep-disordered breathing \u2022 Alveolar hypoventilation  \u2022 Neonatal lung disease \u2022 Alveolar capillary dysplasia \u2022 Severe kyphoscoliosis disorders thromboembolic disease\u2022 Thromboembolic  \u2022 In situ thrombosis \u2022 Sickle cell disease obstruction of the proximal  pulmonary arteries who has suffered massive haemorrhage on anticoagula- tion, or recurrent VTE despite anticoagulation, should  be considered for an inferior vena caval filter. Retrieva- ble caval filters are particularly useful in patients with  temporary risk factors.  \u2022 Extrinsic compression of central pulmonary veins classification of pulmonary hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol 2009;  54:S43\u2013S54. graphic evidence of right ventricular dysfunction or car- diogenic shock. Once anticoagulation is commenced,  however, the risk of mortality rapidly falls. The risk of  recurrence is highest in the first 6\u201312 months after the  initial event, and at 10 years around one-third of indi- viduals will have suffered a further event. media and the intima of the vessel wall, and a clonal  expansion of endothelial cells which take on the appear- ance of plexiform lesions. There is marked narrowing of  the vessel lumen and this, together with the frequently  observed in situ thrombosis, leads to an increase   in pulmonary vascular resistance and pulmonary  hypertension. Typical symptoms include breathlessness, chest pain,  fatigue, palpitation and syncope. Important signs  include elevation of the jugular venous pulse (with a  prominent \u2018a\u2019 wave if in sinus rhythm), a parasternal  heave (right ventricular hypertrophy), accentuation of  the pulmonary component of the second heart sound  and a right ventricular third heart sound. Signs of inter- stitial lung disease or cardiac, liver or connective tissue  disease may suggest the underlying cause. monary artery pressure of at least 25 mmHg at rest, as  measured at right heart catheterisation. The definition  may be further refined by consideration of the pulmo- nary wedge pressure, the cardiac output and the  transpulmonary pressure gradient (mean PAP  \u2212  mean  PWP). The clinical classification of pulmonary hyperten- sion is shown in  Box 19.97 . Further classification is based  on the degree of functional disturbance, assessed using  the New York Heart Association (NYHA) grades I\u2013IV.  Although respiratory failure due to intrinsic pulmonary  disease is the most common cause of pulmonary hyper- tension, severe pulmonary hypertension may occur as a  primary disorder, as a complication of connective tissue  disease (e.g. systemic sclerosis), or as a result of chronic  thromboembolic events. Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is a rare but  important disease that affects predominantly women,  aged between 20 and 30 years. Familial disease is rarer  still but is known to be associated with mutations in the  gene encoding type II bone morphogenetic protein  receptor ( BMPR2 ), a member of the TGF- \u03b2  superfamily.  Mutations in this gene have been identified in   some patients with sporadic pulmonary hypertension.  ventricular \u2018strain\u2019 pattern or a chest X-ray shows  enlarged pulmonary arteries, peripheral pruning and  right ventricle enlargement ( Fig. 19.70 ). Doppler assess- ment of the tricuspid regurgitant jet by transthoracic  echocardiography provides a non-invasive estimate of  Europe, which is at its peak between May and July.  However this is a worldwide problem, which may be  aggravated during harvest seasons. Perennial allergic rhinitis may be a specific reaction  to antigens derived from house dust, fungal spores or  animal dander, but similar symptoms can be caused by  physical or chemical irritants \u2013 for example, pungent  odours or fumes, including strong perfumes, cold air  and dry atmospheres. The phrase \u2018vasomotor rhinitis\u2019 is  often used in this context, as the term \u2018allergic\u2019 is a  misnomer. Chest X-ray showing the typical appearance in  pulmonary hypertension. of sneezing, with profuse watery nasal discharge and  nasal obstruction. These attacks last for a few hours and  are often accompanied by smarting and watering of the  eyes and conjunctival irritation. In perennial rhinitis, the  symptoms are similar but more continuous and usually  less severe. Skin hypersensitivity tests with the relevant  antigen are usually positive in seasonal allergic rhinitis,  but are less useful in perennial rhinitis. \u00d7 (tricuspid regurgitation velocity)2. Further assessment  should be by right heart catheterisation to assess pulmo- nary haemodynamics, measure vasodilator responsive- ness and thus guide further therapy. as thorough dust removal from the bed area, leaving a  window open and renewing old pillows, are often  helpful. Avoidance of pollen and antigens from domes- tic pets, however desirable and beneficial, is usually  impractical. The following medications, singly or in combination,  are usually effective in both seasonal and perennial aller- gic rhinitis: \u2022 an antihistamine such as loratadine \u2022 sodium cromoglicate nasal spray \u2022 steroid nasal spray, e.g. beclometasone  dipropionate, fluticasone, mometasone or  budesonide. In patients whose symptoms are very severe and seri- ously interfering with school, business or social activi- ties, systemic corticosteroids are occasionally indicated,  but adverse effects limit their usefulness. Vasomotor  rhinitis is often difficult to treat, but may respond to  ipratropium bromide, administered into each nostril   3 times daily. advice. General measures include diuretic therapy for  right heart failure, and long-term oxygen therapy for  those with chronic hypoxaemia. Unless there is an  increased risk of bleeding, anticoagulation should be  considered. Digoxin may be useful in patients who  develop atrial tachyarrhythmias. Pregnancy carries a  very high risk of death and women of child-bearing age  should be counselled appropriately. Excessive physical  activity that leads to distressing symptoms should be  avoided but otherwise patients should be encouraged to  remain active. Pneumococcal and influenza vaccination  should be given. Specific treatment options include high-dose calcium  channel blockers, prostaglandins such as epoprostenol  (prostacyclin) or iloprost therapy, the phosphodiester ase  type 5 (PDE5) inhibitor sildenafil, and the oral endothelin  antagonist bosentan. Selected patients are referred for  heart\u2013lung transplantation, and pulmonary thrombo- endarterectomy may be contemplated in those with  chronic proximal pulmonary thromboembolic disease.  Another alternative is atrial septostomy (the creation of  a right-to-left shunt), which decompresses the right ven- tricle and improves haemodynamic performance. affected by sleep. Cough and wheeze disturbing sleep  are characteristic of asthma, while the hypoventilation  that accompanies normal sleep can precipitate respira- tory failure in patients with disordered ventilation due  to kyphoscoliosis, diaphragmatic palsy or muscle disease  (e.g. muscular dystrophy). In contrast, a small but important group of disorders  cause problems only during sleep. Patients with these  may have normal lungs and daytime respiratory func- tion, but during sleep have either abnormalities of ven- tilatory drive (central sleep apnoea) or upper airway  obstruction (obstructive sleep apnoea). Of these, the  obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome is by far  the most common and important. When this coexists  congestion, watery nasal discharge and sneezing. It may  be seasonal or perennial, and is due to an immediate  hypersensitivity reaction in the nasal mucosa. Seasonal  antigens include pollens from grasses, flowers, weeds or  trees. Grass pollen is responsible for hay fever, the most  the COPD is mild. feels that he or she has been asleep all night but wakes  unrefreshed. Bed partners report loud snoring in all  body positions and often have noticed multiple breath- ing pauses (apnoeas). Difficulty with concentration,  impaired cognitive function and work performance,  depression, irritability and nocturia are other features. syndromeIt is now recognised that 2\u20134% of the middle-aged popu- lation suffer from recurrent upper airway obstruction  during sleep. The resulting sleep fragmentation causes  daytime sleepiness, especially in monotonous situations,  resulting in a threefold increased risk of road traffic acci- dents and a ninefold increased risk of single-vehicle  accidents. equate time in bed or from shift work, anyone who  repeatedly falls asleep during the day when not in bed,  who complains that his or her work is impaired by  sleepi ness, or who is a habitual snorer with multiple  witnessed apnoeas should be referred for a sleep assess- ment. A more quantitative assessment of daytime sleepi- ness can be obtained by questionnaire ( Box 19.98 ). Overnight studies of breathing, oxygenation and  sleep quality are diagnostic ( Fig. 19.71 ) but the level of   Epworth sleepiness scale described below? Choose the most appropriate number for each  situation from the following scale: 0  =  would never doze 1  =  slight chance of dozing 2  =  moderate chance of dozing 3  =  high chance of dozing \u2022 Sitting and reading \u2022 Watching TV \u2022 Sitting inactive in a public place (e.g. a theatre or a meeting) \u2022 As a passenger in a car for an hour without a break \u2022 Lying down to rest in the afternoon when circumstances  permit \u2022 Sitting and talking to someone \u2022 Sitting quietly after a lunch without alcohol \u2022 In a car, while stopped for a few minutes in the traffic Normal subjects average 5.9 (SD 2.2) and patients with  severe obstructive sleep apnoea average 16.0 (SD 4.4). saturation % CPAP night Baseline night 50 0 2400 0100 0200 0300 0400 2400 0100 0200 0300 0400 Time (hrs) pharynx during sleep, usually at the level of the soft  palate. Inspiration results in negative pressure within  the pharynx. During wakefulness, upper airway dilating  muscles, including palatoglossus and genioglossus, con- tract actively during inspiration to preserve airway  patency. During sleep, muscle tone declines, impairing  the ability of these muscles to maintain pharyngeal  patency. In a minority of people, a combination of an  anatomically narrow palatopharynx and underactivity  of the dilating muscles during sleep results in inspira- tory airway obstruction. Incomplete obstruction causes  turbulent flow, resulting in snoring (around 40% of  middle-aged men and 20% of middle-aged women  snore). More severe obstruction triggers increased  inspiratory effort and transiently wakes the patient,  allowing the dilating muscles to re-open the airway.  These awakenings are so brief that patients have no  recollection of them. After a series of loud deep breaths  that may wake their bed partner, the patient rapidly  returns to sleep, snores and becomes apnoeic once more.  This cycle of apnoea and awakening may repeat itself  many hundreds of times per night and results in severe  sleep fragmentation and secondary variations in blood  pressure, which may predispose over time to cardiovas- cular disease. Predisposing factors to the sleep apnoea/hypopnoea  syndrome include male gender, which doubles the   risk, and obesity, which is found in about 50%,   because parapharyngeal fat deposits tend to narrow the  pharynx. Nasal obstruction or a recessed mandible can  further exacerbate the problem. Acromegaly and hypo- thyroidism also predispose by causing submucosal infil- tration and narrowing of the upper airway. Sleep apnoea  is often familial, where the maxilla and mandible are  back-set, narrowing the upper airway. Alcohol and  seda tives predispose to snoring and apnoea by relaxing  the upper airway dilating muscles. As a result of marked  sympathetic activation during apnoea, sleep-disordered  breathing is associated over time with sustained hyper- tension and an increased risk of coronary events and  stroke. An association has also been described with  insulin resistance, the metabolic syndrome and type II  diabetes. Treatment of sleep apnoea reduces sympa- thetic drive and blood pressure, and may also improve  these associated metabolic disorders. Sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome: overnight oxygen  saturation trace. The left-hand panel shows the trace of a patient who  had 53 apnoeas plus hypopnoeas/hour, 55 brief awakenings/hour and  marked oxygen desaturation. The right-hand panel shows the effect of  continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) of 10 cm H2O delivered  through a tight-fitting nasal mask: it abolished his breathing irregularity and  awakenings, and improved oxygenation.  726 and snoring is virtually universal. The patient usually   Causes of chronic laryngitis 19.99  Differential diagnosis of  persistent sleepiness \u2022 Extraneous sleep disruption  (e.g. babies/children) \u2022 Shift work \u2022 Excessive caffeine intake \u2022 Physical illness (e.g. pain) \u2022 Repeated attacks of acute laryngitis \u2022 Excessive use of the voice, especially in dusty atmospheres \u2022 Heavy tobacco smoking \u2022 Mouth-breathing from nasal obstruction \u2022 Chronic infection of nasal sinuses \u2022 Periodic limb movement disorder (recurrent limb movements  during non-REM sleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings) \u2022 Idiopathic hypersomnolence (rare) \u2022 Neurological lesions (e.g. hypothalamic or upper brainstem  infarcts or tumours) \u2022 Drugs Box 19.100 . The chief  symptoms are hoarseness or loss of voice (aphonia).  There is irritation of the throat and a spasmodic cough.  The disease pursues a chronic course, frequently unin- fluenced by treatment, and the voice may become per- manently impaired. Other causes of chronic hoarseness  include use of inhaled corticosteroid treatment, tubercu- losis, laryngeal paralysis or tumour. In some patients, a chest X-ray may reveal an unsus- If these are not found, laryngoscopy should be per- formed to exclude a local structural cause. When no specific treatable cause is found, the voice  must be rested completely. This is particularly impor- tant in public speakers and singers. Smoking should be  avoided. Some benefit may be obtained from frequent  inhalations of medicated steam. investigations depends on local resources and the prob- ability of the diagnosis. The current threshold for diag- nosing moderate sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome is  15 apnoeas/hypopnoeas per hour of sleep, where an  apnoea is defined as a 10-second or longer breathing  pause and a hypopnoea a 10-second or longer 50%  reduction in breathing. Several other conditions can cause daytime sleepi- ness but can usually be excluded by a careful history  ( Box 19.99 ). Narcolepsy is a rare cause of sleepiness,  occurring in 0.05% of the population ( p. 1187 ). Idiopathic  hypersomnolence occurs in younger individuals and is  characterised by long nocturnal sleeps. is nearly always unilateral and, because of the intratho- racic course of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve,  usually left-sided. One or both recurrent laryngeal  nerves may be damaged at thyroidectomy, by carci- noma of the thyroid or by anterior neck injury. Rarely,  the vagal trunk itself is involved by tumour, aneurysm  or trauma. traffic accidents, so all drivers must be advised not to  drive until treatment has relieved their sleepiness. In a  minority, relief of nasal obstruction or the avoidance of  alcohol may prevent obstruction. Advice to obese  patients to lose weight is often unheeded, and the major- ity of patients need to use continuous positive airway  pressure (CPAP) delivered by a nasal mask every night  to splint the upper airway open. When CPAP is toler- ated, the effect is often dramatic (see  Fig. 19.71 ), with  relief of somnolence and improved daytime perform- ance, quality of life and survival. Unfortunately, 30\u201350%  of patients do not tolerate CPAP. Mandibular advance- ment devices that fit over the teeth and hold the mandi- ble forward, thus opening the pharynx, are an alternative  that is effective in some patients. There is no evidence  that palatal surgery is of benefit. whatever its cause. Paralysis of organic origin is seldom  reversible, but when only one vocal cord is affected,  hoarseness may improve or even disappear after a few  weeks, as the normal cord compensates by crossing the  midline to approximate with the paralysed cord on  phonation. \u2018Bovine cough\u2019 is a characteristic feature of organic  laryngeal paralysis, and lacks the explosive quality of  normal coughing because the cords fail to close the  glottis. Sputum clearance may also be impaired. A  normal cough in patients with partial loss of voice or  aphonia virtually excludes laryngeal paralysis. Stridor is  occasionally present but seldom severe, except when  laryngeal paralysis is bilateral. Laryngoscopy is required to establish the diagnosis  of laryngeal paralysis. The paralysed cord lies in the  so-called \u2018cadaveric\u2019 position, midway between abduc- tion and adduction. The cause should be treated, if possible. In unilateral  paralysis, persistent dysphonia may be improved by the  injection of Teflon into the affected vocal cord. In bilat- eral organic paralysis, tracheal intubation, tracheostomy  or plastic surgery on the larynx may be necessary. The larynx is commonly affected by acute self-limiting  infections (p. 681). Other disorders include chronic   laryngitis, laryngeal tuberculosis, laryngeal paralysis  and laryngeal obstruction. Tumours of the larynx   are relatively common, particularly in smokers. For  further details, the reader should refer to an otolaryn- gology text. and aphoniaPsychogenic causes of hoarseness or aphonia may   be suggested by associated symptoms in the history   ( p. 236 ). However, laryngoscopy may be necessary to  exclude a physical cause. In psychogenic aphonia, only  the voluntary movement of adduction of the vocal cords  is seen to be impaired. Speech therapy may be helpful. tases, usually from a bronchial carcinoma, is a more  frequent cause of tracheal obstruction than primary  benign or malignant tumours. The trachea may also be  compressed by a retrosternal goitre (see  Fig. 19.11 ,   p. 657). Rare causes include an aneurysm of the aortic  arch and (in children) tuberculous mediastinal lymph  nodes. Tracheal stenosis is an occasional complication of  tracheostomy, prolonged intubation, granulomatosis  with polyangiitis (Wegener\u2019s granulomatosis,  p. 1118 ) or  trauma. than in adults because of the smaller size of the glottis.  Important causes are given in  Box 19.101 . Sudden com- plete laryngeal obstruction by a foreign body produces  the clinical picture of acute asphyxia: violent but ineffec- tive inspiratory efforts with indrawing of the intercostal  spaces and the unsupported lower ribs, accompanied by  cyanosis. Unrelieved, the condition progresses to coma  and death within a few minutes. When, as in most cases,  the obstruction is incomplete at first, the main clinical  features are progressive breathlessness accompanied by  stridor and cyanosis. Urgent treatment to prevent com- plete obstruction is needed. cheal narrowing. Bronchoscopic examination of the  trachea should be undertaken without delay to deter- mine the site, degree and nature of the obstruction. Localised tumours of the trachea can be resected, but  reconstruction after resection may be technically diffi- cult. Endobronchial laser therapy, bronchoscopically  placed tracheal stents, chemotherapy and radiotherapy  are alternatives to surgery. The choice of treatment  depends upon the nature of the tumour and the general  health of the patient. Benign tracheal strictures can  sometimes be dilated but may require resection. abnormality. In adults, it is usually due to malignant  lesions in the mediastinum, such as carcinoma or lym- phoma, eroding both the trachea and oesophagus to  produce a communication between them. Swallowed  liquids enter the trachea and bronchi through the fistula  and provoke coughing. Surgical closure of a congenital fistula, if under- taken promptly, is usually successful. There is usually  no curative treatment for malignant fistulae, and death  from overwhelming pulmonary infection rapidly  supervenes. associated pleural disease have been described above. spasm, which may occur with acute pharyngitis in chil- dren and with whooping cough, is potentially danger- ous but can usually be relieved by steam inhalation.  Laryngeal obstruction from all other causes carries a  high mortality and demands prompt treatment. When a foreign body causes laryngeal obstruction in  children, it can often be dislodged by turning the patient  head downwards, and squeezing the chest vigorously.  In adults, a sudden forceful compression of the upper  abdomen (Heimlich man\u0153uvre) may be effective.   Otherwise, the cause of the obstruction should be inves- tigated by direct laryngoscopy, which may also permit  the removal of an unsuspected foreign body or the inser- tion of a tube past the obstruction into the trachea. Tra- cheostomy must be performed without delay if these  procedures fail to relieve obstruction but, except in dire  emergencies, this should be performed in theatre by a  surgeon. In diphtheria, antitoxin should be administered, and  for other infections the appropriate antibiotic should be  given. In angioedema, complete laryngeal occlusion can  usually be prevented by treatment with adrenaline  (epinephrine) 0.5\u20131 mg (0.5\u20131 mL of 1 : 1000) IM, chlor- phenamine maleate (10\u201320 mg by slow intravenous  injection) and intravenous hydrocortisone sodium suc- cinate (200 mg).  Causes of laryngeal obstruction \u2022 Spasm of laryngeal muscles \u2022 Inhaled foreign body \u2022 Inhaled blood clot or vomitus in an unconscious patient \u2022 Tumours of the larynx \u2022 Bilateral vocal cord paralysis \u2022 Fixation of both cords in rheumatoid disease which can either occur spontaneously, or result from  iatrogenic injury or trauma to the lung or chest wall ( Box 19.102 ). Primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs in  patients with no history of lung disease. Smoking, tall  stature and the presence of apical subpleural blebs are  risk factors. Secondary pneumothorax affects patients  with pre-existing lung disease and is associated with  higher mortality rates ( Fig. 19.72 ). Where the communication between the airway and  the pleural space seals off as the lung deflates and does  not re-open, the pneumothorax is referred to as \u2018closed\u2019  Fig. 19.73A ). The mean pleural pressure remains nega- tive, spontaneous reabsorption of air and re-expansion  of the lung occur over a few days or weeks, and infection  is uncommon. This contrasts with an \u2018open\u2019 pneumo- thorax, where the communication fails to seal and air  continues to pass freely between the bronchial tree and  pleural space ( Fig. 19.73B ). An example of the latter is a   Classification of pneumothorax Primary\u2022 No evidence of overt lung disease. Air escapes from the lung  into the pleural space through rupture of a small pleural bleb,  or the pulmonary end of a pleural adhesion transmission of infection from the airways into the  pleural space, leading to empyema. An open pneumo- thorax is commonly seen following rupture of an  emphysematous bulla, tuberculous cavity or lung  abscess into the pleural space. Occasionally, the communication between the airway  and the pleural space acts as a one-way valve, allowing  air to enter the pleural space during inspiration but not  to escape on expiration. Large amounts of trapped air  accumulate progressively in the pleural space and the  intrapleural pressure rises to well above atmospheric  levels. This is a tension pneumothorax. The pressure  causes mediastinal displacement towards the opposite  side, with compression of the opposite normal lung and  impairment of systemic venous return, causing cardio- vascular compromise ( Fig. 19.73C ). tuberculosis; also seen in asthma, lung abscess, pulmonary  infarcts, bronchogenic carcinoma, and all forms of fibrotic  and cystic lung disease wall injury Male Female 200 eral pleuritic chest pain or breathlessness. In those indi- viduals with underlying chest disease, breathlessness  can be severe and may not resolve spontaneously. In  patients with a small pneumothorax, physical examina- tion may be normal. A larger pneumothorax ( >  15% of  the hemithorax) results in decreased or absent breath  sounds (p. 645). The combination of absent breath  sounds and resonant percussion note is diagnostic of  pneumothorax. By contrast, in tension pneumothorax there is rapidly  progressive breathlessness associated with a marked  tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis and tracheal dis- placement away from the side of the silent hemithorax.  Occasionally, tension pneumothorax may occur without  mediastinal shift, if malignant disease or scarring has  splinted the mediastinum. 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Patient age (years) Bimodal age distribution for hospital admissions for  pneumothorax in England. The incidence of primary spontaneous  pneumothorax peaks in males aged 15\u201330 years. Secondary spontaneous  pneumothorax occurs mainly in males over 55 years.  deflated lung with complete translucency (no lung  markings) between this and the chest wall (p. 645). Care  must be taken to differentiate between a large pre- existing emphysematous bulla and a pneumothorax. CT  is used in difficult cases to avoid misdirected attempts  B C Mean pleural pressure negative Open type Mean pleural pressure atmospheric Tension type Mean pleural pressure positive, mediastinal shift to opposite side Types of spontaneous pneumothorax. A Closed type.  B Open type.  C Tension (valvular) type.  729 RespiRatoRy disease  Pleural disease in old age mediastinal displacement and reveal any pleural fluid  or underlying pulmonary disease. Spontaneous pneumothorax : invariably associated with  underlying lung disease in old age and has a significant  mortality. Surgical or chemical pleurodesis is advised in all  such patients. \u2022  Rib fracture : common cause of pleural-type pain; may  be spontaneous (due to coughing), traumatic or   pathological. Underlying osteomalacia may contribute to   poor healing, especially in the housebound with no   exposure to sunlight. \u2022  Tuberculosis : should always be considered and actively  excluded in any elderly patient presenting with a unilateral  pleural effusion. \u2022  Mesothelioma : more common in older individuals than  younger people due to a long latency period between  asbestos exposure (often more than 20 yrs) and the  development of disease. \u2022  Analgesia : frail older people are particularly sensitive to the  than 2 cm from the chest wall and the patient is not  breathless, normally resolves without intervention. In  young patients presenting with a moderate or large  spontaneous primary pneumothorax, percutaneous  needle aspiration of air is a simple and well-tolerated  alternative to intercostal tube drainage, with a 60\u201380%  chance of avoiding the need for a chest drain ( Fig. 19.74 ).  In patients with significant underlying chronic lung  disease, however, secondary pneumothorax may cause  respiratory distress. In these patients, the success rate of  aspiration is much lower, and intercostal tube drainage  and inpatient observation are usually required, particu- larly in those individuals over 50 years old and those  with respiratory compromise. If there is a tension pneu- mothorax, immediate release of the positive pressure by  careful monitoring is required when using these agents for  pleural pain. and/or hypotension (tension pneumothorax) No Yes1 Yes No Pneumothorax > 15% of hemithorax or significant dyspnoea Yes > 50 years of age Yes No No Percutaneous needle aspiration2 be beneficial, allowing time to prepare for chest drain  insertion. When needed, intercostal drains are inserted in the  4th, 5th or 6th intercostal space in the mid-axillary line,  connected to an underwater seal or one-way Heimlich  valve, and secured firmly to the chest wall. Clamping of  an intercostal drain is potentially dangerous and rarely  indicated. The drain should be removed the morning  after the lung has fully re-inflated and bubbling has  stopped. Continued bubbling after 5\u20137 days is an indica- tion for surgery. If bubbling in the drainage bottle stops  before full re-inflation, the tube is either blocked, kinked  or displaced. Supplemental oxygen may speed resolu- tion, as it accelerates the rate at which nitrogen is reab- sorbed by the pleura. Patients with a closed pneumothorax should be  advised not to fly, as the trapped gas expands at alti- tude. After complete resolution, there is no clear evi- dence to indicate how long patients should avoid flying,  although guidelines suggest that waiting 1\u20132 weeks,  with confirmation of full inflation prior to flight, is  prudent. Patients should also be advised to stop smoking  and informed about the risks of a recurrent pneumotho- rax. Diving is potentially dangerous after pneumotho- rax, unless a surgical pleurodesis has sealed the lung to  the chest wall. No Observe patient for 6 hours Outpatient follow-up3 aspirated or pneumothorax persists Management of spontaneous pneumothorax.(1) Immediate decompression prior to insertion of the intercostal drain.   (2) Aspirate in the 2nd intercostal space anteriorly in the mid-clavicular line  using a 16 F cannula; discontinue if resistance is felt, the patient coughs  excessively, or more than 2.5 L of air are removed. (3) The post-aspiration  chest X-ray is not a reliable indicator of whether a pleural leak remains,  and all patients should be told to attend again immediately in the event of  deterioration.  730 occurs within a year of either aspiration or tube drainage  in approximately 25% of patients, and should prompt  definitive treatment. Surgical pleurodesis is recom- mended in all patients following a second pneumotho- rax and should be considered following the first episode  of secondary pneumothorax if low respiratory reserve  makes recurrence hazardous. Pleurodesis can be  achieved by pleural abrasion or parietal pleurectomy at  thoracotomy or thoracoscopy.  CHEST WALL their consequent effects on thoracic shape may be   caused by: \u2022 congenital abnormality \u2022 vertebral disease, including tuberculosis,  osteoporosis and ankylosing spondylitis \u2022 trauma \u2022 neuromuscular disease such as poliomyelitis. Simple kyphosis (increased anteroposterior curva- herniation of abdominal viscera. Posteriorly situated  hernias through the foramen of Bochdalek are more  common than anterior hernias through the foramen of  Morgagni. more often the left, results from total or partial absence  of muscular development of the septum transversum.  Most eventrations are asymptomatic and are detected by  chance on X-ray in adult life, but severe respiratory dis- tress can be caused in infancy if the diaphragmatic mus- cular defect is extensive. ture) causes less pulmonary embarrassment than   kyphoscoliosis (anteroposterior and lateral curvature).  Kyphoscoliosis, if severe, restricts and distorts expan- sion of the chest wall and impairs diaphragmatic func- tion, causing ventilation\u2013perfusion mismatch in the  lungs. Patients with severe deformity may develop type  II respiratory failure (initially manifest during sleep),  pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular failure.  They can often be successfully treated with non-invasive  ventilatory support ( p. 193 ). tion in which the body of the sternum, usually only the  lower end, is curved inwards. The heart is displaced to  the left and may be compressed between the sternum  and the vertebral column but only rarely is there associ- ated disturbance of cardiac function. The deformity may  restrict chest expansion and reduce vital capacity. Oper- ative correction is rarely performed, and then only for  cosmetic reasons. severe asthma during childhood. Very occasionally, this  deformity can be produced by rickets or be idiopathic. or other structural causes ( Box 19.104 ). The phrenic  nerve may be damaged by bronchial carcinoma, disease  of cervical vertebrae, tumours of the cervical cord, shin- gles, trauma (including road traffic and birth injuries),  surgery, and stretching of the nerve by mediastinal  masses and aortic aneurysms. Idiopathic diaphragmatic  paralysis occasionally occurs in otherwise fit patients.  Paralysis of one hemidiaphragm results in loss of around  20% of ventilatory capacity, but may not be noticed by  otherwise healthy individuals. Ultrasound screening  can be used to demonstrate paradoxical upward move- ment of the paralysed hemidiaphragm on sniffing. CT  of the chest and neck is the best way to exclude occult  disease affecting the phrenic nerve. Bilateral diaphragmatic weakness occurs in periph- acknowledgements Website of the British Thoracic  Society with access to guidelines on a range of respiratory  conditions . www.ersnet.org European Respiratory Society provides  information on education and research, and patient  information . syndrome ( p. 1224 ), in disorders affecting the anterior  horn cells, e.g. poliomyelitis ( p. 1207 ), in muscular dys- trophies, and in connective tissue disorders such as SLE  and polymyositis ( pp. 1109 and 1114 ). Hiatus hernia is common ( p. 865 ). Diaphragmatic  rupture is usually caused by a crush injury and may not  be detected until years later. Respiratory disorders that  cause pulmonary hyperinflation, e.g. emphysema, and  those that result in small stiff lungs, e.g. diffuse pulmo- nary fibrosis, compromise diaphragmatic function and  predispose to fatigue. Global Initiative for Asthma website with  a comprehensive overview of asthma .  Causes of elevation of a hemidiaphragm Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive  Lung Disease website containing a comprehensive overview   of COPD . \u2022 Eventration of the  American Thoracic Society provides  information on education and research, and patient  information . \u2022 Decrease in volume of one  \u2022 Severe pleuritic pain \u2022 Pulmonary infarction \u2022 Subphrenic abscess \u2022 Large volume of gas in the  \u2022 Large tumours or cysts of  lung (e.g. lobectomy,  unilateral pulmonary  fibrosis) the liver Page 645 insets  ( upper lobe collapse )  http://3.bp.blogspot.com ;  ( pneumothorax )  http://chestatlas.com ; ( pleural effusion )  www.ispub.com . RespiRatoRy disease Fig. 19.2 www.Netter.com  Illustrations 155 (bronchus,  acinus) and 191 (circulation), Elsevier. Fig. 19.28  Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung  Disease,  www.goldcopd.com .  Maartens G, Wilkinson RJ. Tuberculosis. Lancet  2007; 370:2030\u20132043. Fig. 19.4  Innes JA. Davidson\u2019s Essentials of medicine.  Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone; 2009 (Fig. 19.4, p. 791);  copyright Elsevier. Fig. 19.52  Adapted from Detterbeck FC, Boffa DJ, Tanoue  LT. The new lung cancer staging system. Chest 2009;  136:260\u2013271. Fig. 19.53  Johnson N McL. Respiratory medicine. Oxford:  Blackwell Science; 1986. Fig. 19.6A\u2013C http://radiology.rsnajnls.org . Fig. 19.8  Adapted from Flenley D. Lancet 1971; 1:1921. Fig. 19.16  WHO Global surveillance, prevention and control  of chronic respiratory diseases: a comprehensive  approach. Fig. 19.60 inset  ( erythema nodosum ) Savin JA, Hunter JAA,  Hepburn NC. Skin signs in clinical medicine. London:  Mosby\u2013Wolfe; 1997; copyright Elsevier. Fig. 19.22  British Thoracic Society and SIGN guideline on  the Management of Asthma. 732 J. Newell-Price The\u2003parathyroid\u2003glands\u2003 766 The\u2003hypothalamus\u2003and\u2003the\u2003pituitary\u2003\u2003 disease\u2003 734 investigations  766 736 gland\u2003 785Functional anatomy, physiology and  investigations  786 Presenting problems in parathyroid   disease  767 Hypercalcaemia  767 Hypocalcaemia  768 Functional anatomy and physiology  736 Endocrine pathology  736 Investigation of endocrine disease  737 Presenting problems in endocrine disease  737 738 pituitary disease  787 Hypopituitarism  787 Pituitary tumour  789 Hyperprolactinaemia/galactorrhoea  790 Primary hyperparathyroidism  769 Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia  770 Hypoparathyroidism  770 Functional anatomy, physiology and  investigations  738 771 740 Prolactinoma  791 Acromegaly  792 Craniopharyngioma  793 Diabetes insipidus  794 Functional anatomy and physiology  771 Presenting problems in adrenal   740 Hypothyroidism  743 Asymptomatic abnormal thyroid function  tests  745 Thyroid lump or swelling  746 795Multiple endocrine neoplasia  795 Autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes  795 Late effects of childhood cancer therapy  796 disease  773 Cushing\u2019s syndrome  773 Therapeutic use of glucocorticoids  776 Adrenal insufficiency  777 Incidental adrenal mass  779 Primary hyperaldosteronism  780 Phaeochromocytoma and paraganglioma  781 Congenital adrenal hyperplasia  782 Autoimmune thyroid disease  747 Transient thyroiditis  751 Iodine-associated thyroid disease  752 Simple and multinodular goitre  752 Thyroid neoplasia  754 Congenital thyroid disease  755 The\u2003reproductive\u2003system\u2003 756 investigations  756 782Presenting problems in endocrine pancreas  disease  783 Spontaneous hypoglycaemia  783 Presenting problems in reproductive   Gastroenteropancreatic neuro-endocrine  tumours  784 disease  758 Delayed puberty  758 Amenorrhoea  759 Male hypogonadism  760 Infertility  761 Gynaecomastia  762 Hirsutism  763 Polycystic ovarian syndrome  764 Turner\u2019s syndrome  765 Klinefelter\u2019s syndrome  766 "