285 Disturbances of Respiratory Function
Edward T. Naureckas, Julian Solway
The primary functions of the respiratory system—to oxygenate blood
and eliminate carbon dioxide—require virtual contact between blood
and fresh air, which facilitates diffusion of respiratory gases between
blood and gas. This process occurs in the lung alveoli, where blood
flowing through alveolar wall capillaries is separated from alveolar
gas by an extremely thin membrane of flattened endothelial and
epithelial cells, across which respiratory gases diffuse and
equilibrate. Blood flow through the lung is unidirectional via a
continuous vascular path along which venous blood absorbs oxygen
from and loses CO2 to inspired gas. The path for airflow, in contrast,
reaches a dead end at the alveolar walls; thus, the alveolar space
must be ventilated tidally, with inflow of fresh gas and outflow of
alveolar gas alternating periodically at the respiratory rate (RR). To
provide an enormous alveolar surface area (typically 70 m2) for
blood-gas diffusion within the modest volume of a thoracic cavity
(typically 7 L), nature has distributed both blood flow and ventilation
among millions of tiny alveoli through multigenerational branching of
both pulmonary arteries and bronchial airways. Ideally, for the lung to
be most efficient in exchanging gas, the fresh gas ventilation of a
given alveolus must be matched to its perfusion. However, as a
consequence of variations in tube lengths and calibers along these
pathways as well as the effects of gravity, tidal pressure fluctuations,
and anatomic constraints from the chest wall, the alveoli vary in their
relative ventilations and perfusions even in health.
For the respiratory system to succeed in oxygenating blood and
eliminating CO2, it must be able to ventilate the lung tidally and thus
to freshen alveolar gas; it must provide for perfusion of the individual
alveolus in a manner proportional to its ventilation; and it must allow
adequate diffusion of respiratory gases between alveolar gas and
capillary blood. Furthermore, it must accommodate several-fold
increases in the demand for oxygen uptake or CO2 elimination
imposed by metabolic needs or acid-base derangement. Given these
multiple requirements for normal operation, it is not surprising that
many diseases disturb respiratory function. This chapter considers in
some detail the physiologic determinants of lung ventilation and
perfusion, elucidates how the matching distributions of these
processes and rapid gas diffusion allow normal gas exchange, and
discusses how common diseases derange these normal functions,
thereby impairing gas exchange—or at least increasing the work
required by the respiratory muscles or heart to maintain adequate
respiratory function.
■ VENTILATION
It is useful to conceptualize the respiratory system as three
independently functioning components: the lung, including its
airways; the neuromuscular system; and the chest wall, which
includes everything that is not lung or active neuromuscular system.
Accordingly, the mass of the respiratory muscles is part of the chest
wall, while the force these muscles generate is part of the
neuromuscular system; the abdomen (especially an obese
abdomen) and the heart (especially an enlarged heart) are, for these
purposes, part of the chest wall. Each of these three components
has mechanical properties that relate to its enclosed volume (or—in
the case of the neuromuscular system—the respiratory system
volume at which it is operating) and to the rate of change of its
volume (i.e., flow). The work of breathing required of the
neuromuscular system is the sum of the work due to volume-related
mechanical properties and the work from flow-related mechanical
properties required to move air throughout the airways to create this
volume change.
Volume-Related Mechanical Properties—Statics Figure 285-1
shows the volume-related properties of each component of the
respiratory system. Because of both surface tension at the air-liquid
interface between alveolar wall lining fluid and alveolar gas and
elastic recoil of the lung tissue itself, the lung requires a positive
transmural pressure difference between alveolar gas and its pleural
surface to stay inflated; this difference is called the elastic recoil
