ANSWERS
1
  The answer is A. (Chap. 305) The obstructive lung diseases are characterized by a reduction in
the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1)/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio, typically
below 0.70. The typical lung diseases that manifest with airways obstruction include chronic
obstructive lung disease (which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis), asthma,
bronchiectasis, and bronchiolitis. Asbestosis (Chap. 311) is a lung disease caused by the
inhalation of asbestos fibers. It is a fibrotic lung disease and typically manifests with a restrictive
ventilator defect and gas transfer defect (reduced diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide
[DLCO]) on pulmonary function testing.
2
  The answer is B. (Chap. 305) The alveolar-arterial oxygen (A-a O2) difference can be helpful in
distinguishing hypoventilation (elevated partial pressure of carbon dioxide [PCO2]) as a cause of
hypoxemia. The A-a O2 difference on room air should be less than 15 mmHg in a young adult
and typically increases slightly with age. The A-a O2 difference cannot easily be interpreted
when the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) is greater than 0.21. The A-a O2 difference on room
air is elevated in situations of hypoxemia due to ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) mismatch, shunt, or
diffusion defect. It will be normal when the hypoxemia is solely due to hypoventilation. In this
case, the gradient is 7.5 mmHg, consistent with hypoventilation secondary to a presumed
narcotic overdose. Asthma and pulmonary embolism typically cause hypoxemia due to V/Q
mismatch. Pneumococcal and pneumocystis pneumonias cause hypoxemia for multifactorial
reasons, including shunt.
3
  The answer is B. (Chap. 306e) The functional residual capacity of the lung refers to the volume
of air that remains in the lung following a normal tidal respiration. This volume of air represents
the point at which the outward recoil of the chest wall is in equilibrium with the inward elastic
recoil of the lungs. The lungs would remain at this volume if not for the actions of the
respiratory muscles. The functional residual capacity is comprised of two lung volumes: the
expiratory reserve volume and the residual volume. The expiratory reserve volume represents
the additional volume of air that can be exhaled from the lungs when acted upon by the
respiratory muscles of exhalation. The residual volume is the volume of air that remains in the
lung following a complete exhalation and is determined by the closing pressure of the small
airways.
4
  The answer is D. (Chap. 306e) This patient is presenting with subacute dyspnea, stridor, and
airflow obstruction, which are consistent with a diagnosis of subglottic stenosis related to his
prior prolonged mechanical ventilation. This is confirmed by the finding of fixed airflow
obstruction on the flow-volume loop. Flow-volume loops are derived from spirometry. Following
a maximum inspiratory effort from residual volume, an individual forces the maximum volume
of air from their lungs, and the resultant flows are plotted against the volume. By convention,
inspiration is shown on the lower portion of the curve and expiration is on the top. There are
characteristic patterns of airflow obstruction that can be evaluated by examining this curve. A
fixed central airflow obstruction results in flattening of the flow-volume loop in both inspiration
and expiration, yielding the characteristic box-like effect, as shown in Figure VI-4B. Examples of
fixed airflow obstruction include tracheal stenosis and an obstructing central airway tumor.
Other patterns of large airway obstruction are a variable intrathoracic obstruction and variable
extrathoracic obstruction. In these situations, flattening of the flow-volume curve occurs on only
one limb of the flow-volume loop, and the pattern of flattening can be explained by the dynamic
changes in pressure that affect the trachea. A variable intrathoracic obstruction causes flattening
of the flow-volume curve only on expiration. During inspiration, the pleural pressure is more
negative than the tracheal pressure, and the trachea remains unimpeded to flow. However, when
pleural pressure rises on expiration relative to tracheal pressure, there is collapse of the trachea
and flattening of flow-volume curve. An example of a variable intrathoracic obstruction is
tracheomalacia. In contrast, the variable extrathoracic defect leads to flattening of the flow-
volume loop on inspiration but not expiration. The relevant pressure acting on airflow in the
trachea in an extrathoracic obstruction is atmospheric pressure. During inspiration, the tracheal
pressure drops below atmospheric pressure, leading to compromised airflow and the
characteristic flattening of the flow-volume loop. However, tracheal pressure rises above
atmospheric pressure during expiration, leading to a normal expiratory curve.
FIGURE VI-4B Flow-volume loops. A. Normal. B. Airflow obstruction. C. Fixed central airway
obstruction. RV, residual volume; TLC, total lung capacity.
5
  The answer is B. (Chap. 306e) Pregnancy is a known risk factor for the development of venous
thromboembolic disease and should be suspected in any pregnant patient presenting with acute
dyspnea. Determining the need for further testing in a pregnant patient should take into account
the potential risks of radiation exposure on the fetus. Unfortunately, the signs and symptoms of
pulmonary embolism are often nonspecific. Most chest x-rays are normal, and sinus tachycardia
may be the only finding on electrocardiogram (ECG). In addition, in the pregnant patient,
dyspnea is common due to a variety of factors including the effects of progesterone as a central
respiratory stimulant and increased size of the uterus later in pregnancy. The normal arterial
blood gas in pregnancy shows a chronic respiratory alkalosis with a pH ranging as high as 7.47
and partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide (PaCO2) between 30 and 32 mmHg. Calculation of
the alveolar-arterial gradient (A-a gradient) can be helpful in this situation. It is easy to be fooled
by the presence of a normal oxygen saturation and partial pressure of oxygen on arterial blood
gas, but the A-a gradient may still be elevated in the presence of respiratory alkalosis. In this
case, the A-a gradient is elevated at 32 mmHg (should be <15 in a young adult in second
trimester of pregnancy) and should prompt the physician to perform further workup for
pulmonary embolism. The choice of test for diagnosis pulmonary embolism in pregnant patients
is most commonly computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiography, although ventilation-
perfusion scanning may also be used.
10
  The answer is C. (Chap. 306e) In this patient presenting with multilobar pneumonia,
hypoxemia is present that does not correct with increasing the concentration of inspired oxygen.
The inability to overcome hypoxemia or the lack of a notable increase in partial pressure of
arterial oxygen (PaO2) or oxygen saturation (SaO2) with increasing fraction of inspired oxygen
physiologically defines a shunt. A shunt occurs when deoxygenated blood is transported to the
left heart and systemic circulation without having the capability of becoming oxygenated. Causes
of shunt include alveolar collapse (atelectasis), intra-alveolar filling processes, intrapulmonary
vascular malformations, or structural cardiac disease leading to right-to-left shunt. In this case,
the patient has multilobar pneumonia leading to alveoli that are being perfused but unable to
participate in gas exchange because they are filled with pus and inflammatory exudates. Acute
respiratory distress syndrome is another common cause of shunt physiology. V/Q mismatch is
the most common cause of hypoxemia and results when there are some alveolar units with low
ratios (low ventilation to perfusion) that fail to fully oxygenate perfused blood. When blood is
returned to the left heart, the poorly oxygenated blood admixes with blood from normal alveolar
units. The resultant hypoxemia is less severe than with shunt and can be corrected with
increasing the inspired oxygen concentration. Hypoventilation with or without other causes of
hypoxemia is not present in this case, as the PCO2 <40 mmHg indicates hyperventilation. The
acidosis present in this case is of a metabolic rather than a pulmonary source. Because the
patient is paralyzed, she is unable to increase her respiratory rate above the set rate to
compensate for the metabolic acidosis.
11
  The answer is A. (Chap. 307) This patient is at risk of infection and malignancy. The findings
on positron emission tomography (PET)/CT are consistent with either diagnosis. Her risk of
infection, particularly aspiration pneumonia, is related to her scleroderma-induced esophageal
dysfunction, history of low-grade fever, and location. Most aspiration pneumonias involve the
right lower lobe, particularly the superior segment. They may appear as consolidation or nodular
infiltrates. Given her history of smoking, she is also at risk of primary lung malignancies.
Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET can often differentiate benign from malignant lesions as small as
1 cm. However, false-positive results are seen in inflammatory conditions, such as pneumonia or
granulomatous diseases. False-negative findings can occur in lesions with low metabolic activity
such as carcinoid tumors and bronchioloalveolar cell carcinomas.
12
  The answer is D. (Chap. 307) This patient presents with a slowly progressive illness manifested
by dyspnea on exertion, dry cough, clubbing, and the presence of crackles on examination. In
addition, the pulmonary function tests demonstrate restrictive lung disease. This scenario is
characteristic of an individual with interstitial lung disease, most commonly idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis in individuals at this age. A more thorough history should be obtained to
determine if there are any other exposures or symptoms that could identify other causes of
interstitial lung disease. The next step in the evaluation of this patient is to perform a high-
resolution CT scan (HRCT) of the chest. HRCT employs thinner cross-sectional images at
approximately 1–2 mm rather than the usual 7–10 mm. This creates more visible details and is
particularly useful for recognizing subtle changes of the interstitium and small airways including
interstitial lung disease, bronchiolitis, and bronchiectasis. Bronchoscopy with transbronchial
biopsy typically does not provide the detail required to adequately diagnose interstitial lung
disease. It may be considered if there are specific features on HRCT that would suggest an
alternative diagnosis. However, in most instances, the pathologic diagnosis of interstitial lung
disease requires a surgical lung biopsy to provide definitive diagnosis. This patient’s symptoms
do not suggest coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure. Thus, echocardiography and
nuclear stress testing are not indicated. CT scanning has evolved over the years to offer several
different techniques that are useful in a variety of circumstances. Standard CT imaging is most
useful for the evaluation and staging of lung masses. Helical CT scanning requires only a single
breath hold and provides continuous collection of data with improved contrast enhancement and
thinner collimation. Once the data are obtained, the images can be reconstructed into other
views including sagittal and coronal planes as well as three-dimensional volumetric
representations. A recent use of this technology is employed in the setting of virtual
bronchoscopy to aid in the planning and performance of bronchoscopy. Multidectector CT scans
can obtain multiple slices in a single rotation that are thinner than the usual cuts. Multidetector
CT scanners are used in the performance of the CT pulmonary angiogram.
13
  The answer is B. (Chap. 309) Asthma is a heterogeneous disease with interplay between genetic
and environmental factors (Table VI-13). Several risk factors that predispose to asthma have
been identified. These should be distinguished from triggers, which are environmental factors
that worsen asthma in a patient with established disease. Atopy is the major risk factor for
asthma, and nonatopic individuals have a very low risk of developing asthma. Patients with
asthma commonly suffer from other atopic diseases, particularly allergic rhinitis, which may be
found in over 80% of asthmatic patients, and atopic dermatitis (eczema). The familial association
of asthma and a high degree of concordance for asthma in identical twins indicate a genetic
predisposition to the disease; however, whether or not the genes predisposing to asthma are
similar or in addition to those predisposing to atopy is not yet clear. It now seems likely that
different genes may also contribute to asthma specifically, and there is increasing evidence that
the severity of asthma is also genetically determined. Although viral infections (especially
rhinovirus) are common triggers of asthma exacerbations, it is uncertain whether they play a
role in etiology. There is some association between respiratory syncytial virus infection in
infancy and the development of asthma, but the specific pathogenesis is difficult to elucidate
because this infection is very common in children. The role of dietary factors is controversial.
Observational studies have shown that diets low in antioxidants such as vitamin C and vitamin
A, magnesium, selenium, and omega-3 polyunsaturated fats (fish oil) or high in sodium and
omega-6 polyunsaturated fats are associated with an increased risk of asthma. Vitamin D
deficiency may also predispose to the development of asthma. However, interventional studies
with supplementary diets have not supported an important role for these dietary factors. Obesity
is also an independent risk factor for asthma, particularly in women, but the mechanisms are
thus far unknown. Air pollutants, such as sulfur dioxide, ozone, and diesel particulates, may
trigger asthma symptoms, but the role of different air pollutants in the etiology of the disease is
much less certain. Most evidence argues against an important role for air pollution because
asthma is no more prevalent in cities with a high ambient level of traffic pollution than in rural
areas with low levels of pollution. There is some evidence that maternal smoking is a risk factor
for asthma, but it is difficult to dissociate this association from an increased risk of respiratory
infections.
TALBLE VI-13   Risk Factors and Triggers Involved in Asthma
14
  The answer is E. (Chap. 309) The patient in this clinical scenario presents with symptoms
typical of asthma, including shortness of breath and wheezing. She also manifests evidence of
atopy, the most common risk factor for developing asthma, with sensitivity to outdoor allergens
and cats. In addition, the patient has a history of allergic rhinitis and eczema, both of which are
commonly seen in individuals with asthma. Indeed, over 80% of asthma patients have a
concomitant diagnosis of allergic rhinitis. Atopy is present in 40%–50% of the population of
affluent countries, but only a small proportion of these individuals develop asthma. Many studies
have shown a genetic predisposition via family history and recent genome-wide screens, but no
single genetic profile has shown high positive predictive value. Overall, the prevalence of asthma
in developed countries has increased over the past 30 years, but recently has leveled off, with a
prevalence of about 15% in children and 10%–12% in adults. Asthma deaths remain rare and
have decreased in recent decades. In the 1960s, asthma deaths did increase with an overuse of
short-acting β-agonist medications. However, since the introduction of inhaled corticosteroids as
maintenance therapy, deaths have declined. Risk factors for fatal asthma include frequent use of
rescue inhalers, lack of therapy with inhaled corticosteroids, and prior hospitalizations for
asthma. Interestingly, the overall disease severity does not vary significantly within a given
patient over the course of the disease. Individuals who have mild asthma typically continue to
have mild asthma, whereas those with severe disease present with severe disease. Diagnosis of
asthma can be made by demonstrating airflow obstruction with significant reversibility on
bronchodilator administration. In this case, the FEV1/FVC ratio is decreased to 70%, which is
low. In addition, the FEV1 increases by 12.4% and 230 mL. This meets the criteria for
bronchodilator reversibility of increases of at least 200 mL and 12%. Bronchoprovocation testing
with methacholine can be considered in individuals who have suspected asthma but have normal
pulmonary function tests.
15
  The answer is B. (Chap. 309) The pathology of asthma has largely been determined by
examining bronchial biopsies of patients with asthma as well as the lungs of individuals who die
from asthma. These pathologic changes are centered around the airways with sparing of the
alveolar spaces. The airways are infiltrated by eosinophils, activated T lymphocytes, and
activated mucosal mast cells. However, the degree of inflammation does not correlate with the
severity of asthma. Another common finding in all asthmatics and individuals with eosinophilic
bronchitis is thickening of the basement membrane due to collagen deposition in the
subepithelium. The airway smooth muscle is hypertrophied as well. Overall, this leads to
thickening of the airway wall, which may also exhibit edematous fluid, particularly in those with
fatal asthma. In cases of fatal asthma, it is also common to find multiple airways that are
occluded by mucus plugs. However, the disease is limited to the airways, and infiltration of the
alveolar spaces by inflammatory cells is not seen.
16
  The answer is C. (Chap. 309) The preferred method for diagnosing asthma is demonstration of
airflow obstruction on spirometry that is at least partially reversible. This is demonstrated in
option C, with a decreased FEV1/FVC ratio, decreased FEV1, and a significant increase in FEV1
following administration of albuterol. For an individual to be considered responsive to a
bronchodilator, the individual should experience an increase in either FEV1 or FVC of at least
200 mL and 12%. Option A describes someone with postviral cough syndrome, which can persist
for several weeks following a viral upper respiratory infection. Option B describes someone with
exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB), which, in absence of other symptoms to suggest
asthma, should not be diagnosed as asthma. Isolated EIB lacks the characteristic airway
inflammation of asthma and does not progress to asthma. Although it is estimated that 80%–90%
of individuals with asthma experience EIB, many individuals who have EIB do not also have
asthma. EIB is caused by hyperventilation with inhalation of cool dry air that leads to
bronchospasm. Option D describes someone with occupational asthma that has occurred after
working with animals in the medical laboratory for many years. Symptoms that are
characteristic of occupational asthma are symptoms only while at work that improve on the
weekends and during holidays. Option D describes someone with COPD. In COPD, 25%–48% of
individuals can demonstrate bronchial hyperresponsive in response to methacholine.
17
  The answer is A. (Chap. 309) The main drugs for asthma can be divided into bronchodilators,
which give rapid relief of symptoms mainly through relaxation of airway smooth muscle, and
controllers, which inhibit the underlying inflammatory process (Figure VI-17). For patients with
mild, intermittent asthma, a short-acting β2-agonist is all that is required. However, use of a
reliever medication more than twice a week indicates the need for regular controller therapy.
This patient is using her reliever medication frequently; therefore, a controller should be added
to her regimen. The treatment of choice for all patients is an inhaled corticosteroid given twice
daily. It is usual to start with an intermediate dose (e.g., 200 μg twice a day of beclomethasone
dipropionate or equivalent) and to decrease the dose if symptoms are controlled after 3 months.
If symptoms are not controlled, a long-acting β-agonist (LABA) should be added, which is most
conveniently given by switching to a combination inhaler. The dose of controller should be
adjusted accordingly, as judged by the need for a rescue inhaler. Muscarinic receptor antagonists
such as ipratropium bromide prevent cholinergic nerve-induced bronchoconstriction and mucus
secretion. They are less effective than β2-agonists in asthma therapy because they inhibit only
the cholinergic reflex component of bronchoconstriction, whereas β2-agonists prevent all
bronchoconstrictor mechanisms. Anticholinergics, including tiotropium, may be used as
additional bronchodilators in patients with asthma that is not controlled by inhaled
corticosteroid and LABA combinations. Low doses of theophylline or an antileukotriene may also
be considered as an add-on therapy, but these are less effective than LABA. If asthma is not
controlled despite the maximal recommended dose of inhaled therapy, it is important to check
compliance and inhaler technique. In these patients, maintenance treatment with an oral
corticosteroid may be needed, and the lowest dose that maintains control should be used.
FIGURE VI-17 Stepwise approach to asthma therapy according to the severity of asthma and ability to
control symptoms. ICS, inhaled corticosteroids; LABA, long-acting β2-agonist; OCS, oral corticosteroid.
18
  The answer is A. (Chap. 309) Approximately one-third of asthmatic patients who are pregnant
improve during the course of a pregnancy, one-third deteriorate, and one-third are unchanged. It
is important to maintain good control of asthma because poor control may have adverse effects
on fetal development. Compliance may be a problem because there is often concern about the
effects of antiasthma medications on fetal development. The drugs that have been used for many
years in asthma therapy have now been shown to be safe and without teratogenic potential.
These drugs include short-acting β-agonists (e.g., albuterol), inhaled corticosteroids (e.g.,
beclomethasone), and theophylline; there is less safety information about newer classes of drugs
such as LABAs (e.g., salmeterol), antileukotrienes, and anti–immunoglobulin (Ig) E. If an oral
corticosteroid is needed, it is better to use prednisone rather than prednisolone because it cannot
be converted to the active prednisolone by the fetal liver, thus protecting the fetus from systemic
effects of the corticosteroid. There is no contraindication to breast-feeding when patients are
using these drugs.
19
  The answer is C. (Chap. 310) Acute eosinophilic pneumonia is an acute respiratory syndrome
that often presents with a clinical picture that is difficult to differentiate from acute lung injury
or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Clinically, patients present with a prodrome of
fevers, malaise, myalgias, night sweats, dyspnea, cough, and pleuritic chest pain. Physical
examination may demonstrate high fevers, bibasilar rales, and rhonchi. The clinical course is
frequently marked by rapid clinical progression to hypoxemic respiratory failure that requires
mechanical ventilation. Chest radiography shows bilateral pulmonary infiltrates. This clinical
picture clearly overlaps with infectious causes of respiratory failure and ARDS. However, the
hallmark of acute eosinophilic pneumonia is the finding of >25% eosinophils in the
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia most frequently presents in
individuals between the ages of 20 and 40 years and is more common in men. There is no
epidemiologic link between the diagnosis and a prior history of asthma. However, several case
reports have linked development of acute eosinophilic pneumonia to recent initiation of cigarette
smoking or exposure to other environmental stimuli including dust. A bronchoalveolar lavage
showing eosinophilia >25% is sufficient to establish the diagnosis of acute eosinophilic
pneumonia. A surgical lung biopsy is not necessary. If performed, it would demonstrate
eosinophilic infiltration with acute and organizing diffuse alveolar damage. Peripheral
eosinophilia is not present acutely at disease onset, but often becomes present between day 7
and day 30. Other organ failure is not present. The disease has a high degree of corticosteroid
responsiveness and a good prognosis. Initiation of therapy with corticosteroids should not be
delayed. Although there is no recommended dose of steroids for therapy, patients are often
initiated on therapy with intravenous glucocorticoids with rapid improvement in the hypoxemic
respiratory failure. The expected clinical course is complete resolution of clinical and
radiographic features of the disease over several weeks without relapse upon tapering of steroids.
20
  The answer is D. (Chap. 310) Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is an
eosinophilic pulmonary disorder that occurs in response to allergic sensitization to antigens from
Aspergillus fungi. The classic presentation of an individual with ABPA is someone with an
asthmatic phenotype that becomes increasingly difficult to control and may be steroid
dependent. These individuals often complain of chronic cough with expectoration of thick brown
mucus plugs. In addition, individuals with cystic fibrosis have an increased incidence of ABPA.
ABPA can be difficult to diagnose, and many individuals have had prolonged symptoms prior to
diagnosis. Initial diagnostic testing should include demonstration of elevated circulating IgE level
(option D), typically >1000 IU/mL. Peripheral eosinophilia is also commonly seen. If the IgE
level is elevated and suggestive of IgE, one must demonstrate sensitivity to Aspergillus antigens.
This can be achieved by skin test reactivity, positive serum precipitins for Aspergillus, and/or
direct measurement of circulating specific IgG and IgE to Aspergillus. Testing for specific IgE in
the serum is most frequent accomplished via radioallergosorbent (RAST) testing. Chest CT
(option B) may show central bronchiectasis as the classic manifestation of ABPA but is present in
only about 30% of individuals. Other findings in ABPA including patchy infiltrates and mucus
impaction. Aspirin desensitization (option A) therapy is a treatment for aspirin-sensitive asthma
that characteristically presents with the Samter triad of asthma, nasal polyposis, and aspirin
and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug sensitivity. Nasal nitric oxide testing (option C) is a
diagnostic test used for identification of primary ciliary dyskinesia. Sweat chloride testing
(option E) is used for diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.
21
and VI-22.    The answers are B and E, respectively. (Chap. 310) The patient has a subacute
presentation of hypersensitivity pneumonitis related to exposure to bird droppings and feathers
at work. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction that has a
variety of presentations. Some people develop acute onset of shortness of breath, fevers, chills,
and dyspnea within 6–8 hours of antigen exposure. Others may present subacutely with
worsening dyspnea on exertion and dry cough over weeks to months. Chronic hypersensitivity
pneumonitis presents with more severe and persistent symptoms with clubbing. Progressive
worsening is common with the development of chronic hypoxemia, pulmonary hypertension,
interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and respiratory failure. The diagnosis relies on a variety of tests.
Peripheral eosinophilia is not a feature of this disease as the disease is mediated through T-cell
inflammation. Other nonspecific markers of inflammation may be elevated, including the
erythrocyte 
sedimentation 
rate, 
C-reactive 
protein, 
rheumatoid 
factor, 
and 
serum
immunoglobulins. Neutrophilia and lymphopenia can be seen. If a specific antigen is suspected,
serum precipitins directed toward that antigen may be demonstrated. However, these tests are
neither sensitive nor specific for the presence of disease. Chest radiography may be normal or
show a diffuse reticulonodular infiltrate. Chest HRCT is the imaging modality of choice and
shows ground-glass infiltrates in the lower lobes. Centrilobular infiltrates are often seen as well.
In the chronic stages, patchy emphysema is the most common finding. Histopathologically,
interstitial alveolar infiltrates predominate, with a variety of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and
occasionally eosinophils and neutrophils seen. Loose, noncaseating granulomas are typical.
Treatment requires removing the individual from exposure to the antigen. If this is not possible,
the patient should wear a mask that prevents small-particle inhalation during exposure. In
patients with mild disease, removal from antigen exposure alone may be sufficient to treat the
disease. More severe symptoms require therapy with glucocorticoids at an equivalent prednisone
dose of 1 mg/kg daily for 7 to 14 days. The steroids are then gradually tapered over 2 to 6
weeks.
23
  The answer is C. (Chap. 311) Mesothelioma is a rare malignancy of the pleura and peritoneum,
with almost all cases associated with asbestos exposure. It is notable that the exposure to
asbestos could seem almost minimal but still confer significant risk. Exposures of less than 1–2
years or that have occurred more than 40 years in the past have been demonstrated to confer
increased risk of mesothelioma. Although tobacco smoking in association with asbestos exposure
increases the risk of lung cancer several-fold, there is no additive or exponential risk of
mesothelioma in those who smoke. Mesothelioma most often presents with a persistent unilateral
pleural effusion that may mask the underlying pleural tumor. However, the pleura may be
diffusely thickened. Typically, large pleural effusions would cause expansion of the hemithorax
with mediastinal shift away from the side of the pleural effusion. However, even with large
effusions, no mediastinal shift is seen on chest radiograph because the pleural thickening
associated with the disease leads to a fixed chest cavity size and thoracic restriction. The most
difficult diagnostic dilemma in these patients is to differentiate mesothelioma from metastatic
lung carcinoma (usually adenocarcinoma) as many patients are at risk for both tumors, and lung
cancer is by far the most common malignancy seen in individuals with asbestos exposure and
cigarette smoking. Pleural fluid cytology is not adequate for the diagnosis of most individuals
with mesothelioma, with samples being positive for the disease in less than 50% of individuals.
Most often, video-assisted thoracoscopy is required to directly visualize the pleural and direct
biopsy sampling. Unfortunately, there is no proven effective therapy for mesothelioma, and most
patients die from local extension of the disease.
24
  The answer is E. (Chap. 311) Silicosis results from the inhalation of free silica (or crystalline
quartz) and is associated with mining, stonecutting, foundry work, and quarrying. The chronic
form of silicosis has been associated with an increased risk of a variety of diseases. Silica is
known to be cytotoxic to alveolar macrophages and, thus, places patients at increased risk of
pulmonary infections that rely on cellular immunity, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
atypical mycobacteria, and fungus. In addition, silicosis is associated with the development of
connective tissue disorders including rheumatoid arthritis with rheumatoid nodules (Caplan
syndrome) and scleroderma. Finally, silica is listed as a probable lung carcinogen.
25
  The answer is D. (Chap. 311) Occupational lung diseases have been associated with a wide
variety of organic and inorganic exposures in the workplace and clinically can range from
primarily an airway disease to progressive pulmonary fibrosis. When evaluating a patient for a
new pulmonary diagnosis, it is important to perform a detailed occupational history to determine
if there is a possibility that the patient’s profession may be causing or perpetuating the disease
process. Specific clinical syndromes are associated with well-defined clinical exposures. The
inorganic dusts include asbestos, silica, coal dust, beryllium, and a variety of other metals.
Asbestos and silica are among the most common exposures. Asbestos exposure is associated with
mining, construction, and ship repair. In areas near where asbestos mining has occurred, the
general population also has shown an increased risk of asbestos-related lung disease. Clinically,
asbestos exposure is associated with a range of clinical syndromes including asbestosis
(interstitial lung disease), benign pleural plaques and pleural effusions, lung cancer, and
mesothelioma. Silica exposure is common among miners, stone masons, and individuals involved
in sand blasting or quarrying. A variety of clinical syndrome can occur with silica exposure, the
most severe being progressive massive fibrosis with mass-like upper lobe consolidating nodules
(>1 cm). Coal mining is also associated with a clinical picture similar to silicosis and progressive
massive fibrosis. Beryllium is a lightweight metal that is highly conductive and is used in high-
tech industries. The classic disease associated with beryllium exposure is a chronic
granulomatous disease similar in clinical appearance to sarcoidosis. Other metals can produce
any number of clinical syndromes. Welders of galvanized metal who use zinc oxide are
susceptible to metal fume fever and present with an acute self-limited influenza-like illness.
    Organic dusts that can lead to occupational lung disease include cotton dust, grain dust, toxic
chemicals, and other agricultural dusts, among many others. Cotton milling and processing can
present with a clinical syndrome known as byssinosis, which has asthma-like features. Many of
the organic dust exposures also lead to hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Examples of
hypersensitivity pneumonitis syndromes related to occupational exposures include farmer’s lung,
pigeon breeder’s lung, and malt worker’s lung. Typically, a specific antigen can be identified as
the culprit for the development of hypersensitivity pneumonitis. In farmer’s lung, the most
common cause is thermophilic Actinomyces species found in moldy hay.
26
  The answer is D. (Chap. 311) The patient presents with acute-onset pulmonary symptoms,
including wheezing, with no other medical problems. He is a farmer and was recently handling
hay. The clinical presentation and radiogram are consistent with farmer’s lung, a hypersensitivity
pneumonitis caused by Actinomyces. In this disorder, moldy hay with spores of actinomycetes are
inhaled and produce a hypersensitivity pneumonitis. The disorder is seen most commonly in
rainy periods, when the spores multiply. Patients present generally 4–8 hours after exposure with
fever, cough, and shortness of breath without wheezing. Chest radiograms often show patchy
bilateral, often upper lobe infiltrates. The exposure history will differentiate this disorder from
other types of pneumonia.
27
  The answer is D. (Chap. 311) Firefighters and fire victims are at risk of smoke inhalation
injury, an important cause of acute cardiorespiratory failure. In addition to the risk of carbon
monoxide poisoning, these individuals are also at risk from toxic inhalational injury from fumes
released from the burning of synthetic materials. This patient has a carbon monoxide level that
requires treatment with 100% oxygen but would not be expected to lead to significant
cardiorespiratory collapse. Recently, cyanide toxicity has been recognized as a significant cause
of morbidity and mortality following industrial and house fires. Cyanide toxicity can present
with rapid development of neurologic and cardiorespiratory collapse. The neurologic symptoms
can range from mild headache to confusion, generalized seizures, and coma. Hypotension with
significant lactic acidosis is prominent. Often an elevated lactate level leads to the suspicion of
concomitant cyanide toxicity in an individual with smoke inhalation injury. However to
definitely make the diagnosis, one would want to assess the red blood cell cyanide concentration.
28
  The answer is D. (Chap. 312) Bronchiectasis is a common disorder that refers to an irreversible
dilation of the airways that affects the lung in a focal or diffuse pattern. Historically,
bronchiectasis has been characterized pathologically as cylindrical, varicose, or cystic in nature.
There are numerous causes of bronchiectasis including infectious, inherited, immunologic, and
idiopathic causes. The most common cause of bronchiectasis worldwide is postinfectious
following tuberculosis infection. However, in developed countries, other causes are more
common. The most common cause in developed countries is cystic fibrosis (CF); CF patients
develop clinically significant bronchiectasis in late adolescence or early adulthood. Most children
with CF are diagnosed currently through newborn screening programs, which were introduced in
all states within the past decade. However, adults may continue to present with milder forms of
the disease, so clinicians should continue to have a high degree of clinical suspicion for CF when
an individual presents with a new diagnosis of bronchiectasis. Epidemiologically, individuals
presenting with CF bronchiectasis will typically be younger than individuals with non-CF
bronchiectasis. In contrast, non-CF bronchiectasis more commonly affects nonsmoking women
older than 50 years. The clinical presentation of bronchiectasis is a daily cough productive of
thick tenacious sputum. Physical examination demonstrates both crackles and wheezing on
examination. In CF, the disease findings are more predominant in the upper lobes, whereas in
certain other causes (chronic aspiration, immunoglobulin deficiency), there is a lower lobe
predominance. Clubbing is variably present and generally only seen in more advance disease.
The diagnosis of bronchiectasis is determined by the presence of the disease on a chest CT
imaging. Chest radiography is not sensitive for the diagnosis of bronchiectasis, particularly early
in the disease process. It may show “tram tracks” indicating dilated airway. Chest HRCT is the
diagnostic modality of choice for confirming diagnosis. Findings include demonstration of
dilated, nontapering airways that may be filled with mucus. In addition, signet-ring signs may
also be seen where the airway is greater than 1.5 times the size of the adjacent blood vessel.
Other findings include bronchial wall thickening, inspissated secretion with a “tree-in-bud”
pattern, and cysts emanating from the bronchial wall. Once bronchiectasis has been confirmed
on CT imaging, other tests may be indicated in this patient to determine the etiology of the
bronchiectasis. Testing should be guided by the history and physical examination and may
include sputum culture for mycobacteria and fungal organisms, immunoglobulin levels,
autoimmune panel, sweat chloride testing, nasal nitric oxide testing (for primary ciliary
dyskinesia), bronchoscopy, and/or tests of swallow function. Despite thorough evaluation, in as
many as 25%–50% of individuals referred for workup of bronchiectasis, no specific cause is ever
identified.
29
  The answer is C. (Chap. 312) Treatment of infectious bronchiectasis relies upon controlling the
source of infection and maintaining good bronchial hygiene and airway clearance. The most
common nontuberculous mycobacterial organism causing infection in individuals with
bronchiectasis is Mycobacterium avium-intracellculare (MAI or MAC). The recommended treatment
for MAI is a macrolide combined with ethambutol and rifampin. The recommended course of
therapy is 12 months after the last positive culture. In certain instances, surgical resection can be
considered for focal bronchiectasis if a patient is failing to clear the infection after a prolonged
course of antibiotic therapy. However, this patient has had negative cultures for 12 months,
demonstrating an appropriate response to antimicrobial therapy. Thus, options A and B are
incorrect. However, the patient continues to have daily sputum expectoration related to her
underlying bronchiectasis and should be instructed on appropriate bronchial hygiene and airway
clearance. A variety of approaches have been used, and no one treatment has been demonstrated
to be superior. Chest physiotherapy is often recommended on a daily basis to improve secretion
clearance. This can be accomplished through postural drainage often combined with traditional
mechanical percussion or the use of devices including high-frequency chest wall oscillation vest
or oscillatory positive expiratory pressure flutter valve (option C). Regular exercise may also
improve airway clearance. Mucolytic agents such as hypertonic saline are also often used.
However, in contrast with CF bronchiectasis, dornase (DNase) (option D) is not used for non-CF
bronchiectasis. A randomized, placebo-controlled research trial demonstrated lack of efficacy
and potential harm in the non-CF population. Finally, there is no proven role for the use of daily
oral corticosteroids (option E) in the absence of a disease known to respond to steroid therapy,
such as allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis or autoimmune disease such as Sjögren
syndrome.
VI-30 and VI-31.    The answers are B and B, respectively. (Chap. 313) Cystic fibrosis is one of the
most common life-shortening autosomal recessive disorders, affecting about 1 in 3300 live births
in Caucasians. It is much less common in African Americans (~1 in 15,000) and Asians (~1 in
33,000). The disease is caused by an inherited defect in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
regulator (CFTR) protein, a large ion channel in the cell membrane responsible for chloride ion
transport. In the absence of a functional CFTR protein, individuals with CF have a variety of
disease manifestations related to impaired exocrine function. The primary disease manifestations
are respiratory and pancreatic in nature with chronic sinopulmonary infections, impaired
exocrine pancreatic function, and poor nutrition. The gene that encodes CFTR is located on
chromosome 7, and more than 2000 mutations have been described. In understanding the
genetics, it is best to categorize them according to the effect on CFTR function. Class I mutations
(G542X, 621+1G>T) lead to absence of synthesis, most frequently through the presence of an
abnormal stop codon. Class II mutations (F508del, the most common mutation) cause defective
protein synthesis and premature degradation. Class III mutations (G551D) are gating mutations,
in which the CFTR protein is present at the cell membrane but fails to function properly. Type IV
mutations (R117H, R117C) are conductance mutations with impaired conductance through the
ion channel pore, and Type V mutations are splice mutations that lead to a diminished number
of CFTR transcripts being produced due to a promoter or splicing abnormality. One of the most
exciting breakthroughs in the treatment of CF has been in the area of CFTR modulations. High-
throughput screening identified small-molecule compounds that act as potentiators or correctors
of CFTR and improve CFTR function. The first of these compounds to be identified was ivacaftor.
This drug works as a potentiator and has been approved for individuals with gating mutations,
the most common of which is G551D. Approximately 5% of the CF population has a gating
mutation. In clinical trials, individuals with a G551D mutation treated with ivacaftor
experienced an absolute improvement in lung function (FEV1 percent predicted) of 10.6% and a
decline in sweat chloride values to normal levels. This was sustained over the 24 weeks of the
clinical trial. Long-term data are now available that demonstrates persistent effects of ivacaftor
up to 144 weeks (McKone EF et al: Lancet Respir Med 2014;2(11):902–910). Individuals on
ivacaftor also experience an improvement in nutritional status and growth in younger
individuals as well. Ivacaftor is now being combined with corrector compounds such as
lumacaftor to attempt to correct the F508del processing abnormality. The combination of
ivacaftor and lumacaftor was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in July
2015 for individuals homozygous for F508del. Other potentiator/corrector combinations are
undergoing clinical trials.
32
  The answer is E. (Chap. 313 and J Pediatr 2008;153(2):S4–S14) CF is a common autosomal
recessive disorder that affects 1 out of every 3300 live births in the Caucasian population of
North America and Europe. There have been more than 2000 mutations identified in the gene
for the CFTR protein—the abnormal protein identified in CF. This protein is a large
transmembrane protein involved in the transport of chloride and other ions, and abnormalities of
the CFTR lead to abnormalities of salt and water transport. The primary clinical manifestations
of CF are due to the effects of the mutated CFTR in the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and
pancreas. In the lungs, abnormal CFTR leads to thick, sticky mucus with abnormal mucociliary
clearance. A patient will have recurrent respiratory infections with development of cystic
bronchiectasis over time. The presenting manifestation in infancy is often meconium ileus and
can lead to constipation and distal intestinal obstruction in adults. Failure of the CFTR in the
pancreas prevents appropriate release of pancreatic enzymes to allow for proper digestion of
food, especially fatty foods, with resultant malnutrition and steatorrhea. While most patients
with CF present in infancy or childhood, about 5% of all individuals with CF will not be
diagnosed until adulthood. Presenting symptoms in adulthood can be myriad and often result
from minor mutations of the CFTR gene. These symptoms can include recurrent lung and sinus
infections, malnutrition, sinus disease, and infertility, especially absence of the vas deferens in
men. The standard test for the diagnosis of CF is the sweat chloride test. Elevated values are
pathognomonic for CF, with a cutoff of >60 mmol/L in adults being diagnostic. Values greater
than 40 mmol/L fall within the indeterminate range. Given the large number of mutations that
can cause CF, genetic testing can be expensive and is not the first test performed when CF is
suspected. A screening CF genetic panel often only identifies between approximately 20 and 80
of the common CF mutations. If only one mutation is identified, then this may represent the
carrier state, or it could represent CF with a more rare mutation requiring more detailed genetic
analysis, including full gene sequencing. In such cases, referral to a tertiary CF care center is
helpful for data interpretation. In some instances, nasal potential difference testing can be
helpful because CF patients demonstrate an elevated baseline nasal potential difference with
failure to respond to stimulation with β-agonists. Presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa is common
in adults with CF but is not specific for the diagnosis of the disease because bronchiectasis from
any cause can lead to P aeruginosa colonization.
33
  The answer is C. (Chap. 313 and Ann Am Thorac Soc 2014;11(10):1640–1650) Individuals with
CF experience recurrent pulmonary and sinus infections. In childhood, the most commonly
isolated organisms are Haemophilus influenzae and Staphylococcus aureus. However, over time,
most adults demonstrate P aeruginosa. It is now recognized that chronic colonization with
Pseudomonas, especially multidrug-resistant organisms, is associated with a more rapid decline in
lung function. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation recommends quarterly office visits with a
physician with assessment of respiratory cultures at each visit. When Pseudomonas is initially
detected, attempts to eradicate the organism should be undertaken. The recommended regimen
for eradication is an inhaled antibiotic with the aminoglycoside antibiotic tobramycin as the
preferred agent. This will be continued every other month until the next office visit to determine
if therapy should be continued. For all patients chronically colonized with Pseudomonas, inhaled
tobramycin every other month should be continued on an indefinite basis. In addition,
azithromycin 500 mg three times weekly or 250 mg daily is also used. Whether azithromycin
primarily exerts its beneficial effect through anti-inflammatory or antimicrobial actions is not
definitively known at the present time. Because the patient is clinically well without any
symptoms of acute exacerbation, the use of intravenous antibiotics is not required. Chest wall
oscillation and hypertonic saline are both mechanisms to improve airway clearance. While the
patient may need to improve airway clearance in the future, the most important component of
his care at present is to eradicate new growth of Pseudomonas. His current exercise regimen and
autogenic drainage provide a component of airway clearance in his maintenance care plan.
34
  The answer is D. (Chap. 314) Acute exacerbations of COPD are a frequent cause of morbidity
and mortality in COPD, contributing to >70% of healthcare expenditures for COPD. Risk factors
for development of acute exacerbation include severity of airflow obstruction (FEV1 <50%
predicted), history of prior exacerbations, and elevated ratio of pulmonary artery to aorta on
chest CT. Acute exacerbations of COPD cost over $10 billion to the healthcare system in the
United States annually. Thus, determining the causes of exacerbations and prevention of future
exacerbations have been important targets in the care of COPD patients. Most acute
exacerbations are associated with airway inflammation or infection, including acquiring a new
strain of bacteria or a viral respiratory infection. Therefore, strategies for prevention have been
primarily focused on decreasing inflammatory responses and preventing infections. The selective
phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor roflumilast has been demonstrated to decrease exacerbation
frequency in individuals with COPD who have symptoms of chronic bronchitis and frequent
exacerbations. However, it has limited effects of pulmonary function and chronic respiratory
symptoms. The macrolide antibiotic azithromycin has both anti-inflammatory and antibiotic
properties. In a randomized controlled trial, it has been shown to decrease exacerbation
frequency and increase time to first exacerbation when administered at a dose of 500 mg daily,
not 250 mg three times weekly. Other interventions that also decrease exacerbation frequency
include use of inhaled glucocorticoids in individuals with frequent exacerbations or asthmatic
symptoms and influenza vaccination. Long-acting anticholinergic medications and long-acting β-
agonists decrease exacerbations as well. Oxygen therapy and nocturnal ventilation are not
indicated for prevention of exacerbations. Theophylline yields modest improvements in lung
function but has no proven effect on exacerbations.
35
  The answer is D. (Chap. 314) COPD affects more than 10 million Americans and is currently
the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. Worldwide, COPD is also increasing as
cigarette smoking, the primary risk factor for the development of COPD, is increasing in
prevalence throughout the world. While cigarette smoking is clearly identified as a risk factor for
COPD, other factors have also been identified to contribute to the risk of COPD. In many
developing countries, the prevalence of smoking among women remains low. However, the
incidence of COPD is increasing in women as well as men. In many developing countries, this
increased incidence of COPD in women is attributable to the use of biomass fuels in poorly
ventilated areas for heat and cooking. In addition, passive cigarette smoke exposure may also
contribute. Occupational exposures also lead to an increased risk of COPD. Although some
exposures such as cotton textile dust and gold mining have not been definitively associated with
COPD, coal dust exposure is a risk factor for emphysema in both smokers and nonsmokers.
Inherent properties of the airways also affect the risk of COPD. Airway hyperresponsiveness
increases the risk of lung function decline and is a risk factor for COPD. Although there is much
interest in the role of chronic or recurrent infections as a risk factor for COPD, there has been no
proven link.
36
  The answer is B. (Chap. 314) COPD is a disease process encompassing the clinical entities of
emphysema and chronic bronchitis. COPD is defined pathophysiologically by the presence of
irreversible airflow obstruction with hyperinflation and impaired gas exchange. The airflow
obstruction occurs for several reasons including decreased elastic recoil of the lungs, increased
airway inflammation, and increased closure of small airways due to loss of tethering in
emphysematous lungs. This leads to early closure of airways in expiration with air trapping and
hyperinflation. Finally, the loss of alveoli in emphysematous lungs leads to a progressive decline
in gas exchange with alterations of ventilation-perfusion relationships. On pulmonary function
testing, these pathophysiologic changes result in a typical pattern with the primary characteristic
of COPD being a decrease in the FEV1/FVC ratio and FEV1. The severity of airflow obstruction is
graded by the degree of decline in the percent predicted FEV1. The FVC may or may not be
decreased. With hyperinflation, the TLC increases with a concomitant increase in RV. Finally, the
DLCO is also characteristically decreased in most cases of COPD. Some patients with pure
chronic bronchitis without any emphysematous component may have a preserved DLCO,
although this is a rare presentation for COPD. This same pattern of pulmonary function testing
can be seen in asthma with the exception of the DLCO, which is typically normal asthma. A
decrease in TLC is characteristic in restrictive ventilator disorders, such as pulmonary fibrosis,
but not in obstructive disorders such as COPD.
37
  The answer is D. (Chap. 314) This patient has a known diagnosis of COPD, with worsening
symptoms and pulmonary function testing consistent with a moderate degree of disease. By the
Global Initiative for Lung Disease (GOLD) criteria, the patient would have stage II disease. He is
currently undermanaged with a short-acting β-agonist only in the setting of limiting symptoms.
Unfortunately, there is no medical therapy that alters mortality or definitively decreases rate of
decline in lung function in COPD with the exception of smoking cessation, oxygen for chronic
hypoxemia, and lung volume reduction surgery in a small subset of highly selected patients.
Therefore, the goal of therapy in COPD is to improve symptoms and quality of life. The best
initial medication for this patient would be to add a long-acting bronchodilator in the form of
the antimuscarinic agent tiotropium. In large randomized controlled trials, tiotropium has been
demonstrated to improve symptoms and decrease exacerbations in COPD. Ipratropium, a short-
acting anticholinergic medication, also improves symptoms but has not been similarly shown to
decrease exacerbation rate. Combinations of long-acting β-agonists and inhaled glucocorticoids
have also been shown to decrease exacerbations and improve quality of life in COPD. The largest
trial of these medications to date has demonstrated a trend toward improved mortality.
Currently, the recommendation for initiation of long-acting β-agonist and inhaled glucocorticoid
combinations is to consider starting the medication if the patient has two or more exacerbations
yearly or demonstrates significant acute bronchodilator reactivity on pulmonary function testing.
At one time, physicians considered prescribing long-term oral glucocorticoids if a patient
demonstrated significant improvement in lung function in response to a trial of oral steroids.
However, long-term treatment with steroids has an unfavorable risk-benefit ratio including
weight gain, osteoporosis, and increased risk of infection, especially pneumonia. Oxygen therapy
improves outcomes in individuals who are hypoxemic at rest or have borderline hypoxemia with
evidence of end-organ damage (e.g., pulmonary hypertension, polycythemia). Although oxygen
may be prescribed for individuals with isolated exercise or nocturnal hypoxemia, research to
date has not demonstrated any change in outcomes with oxygen in these settings.
38
  The answer is E. (Chap. 314) Acute exacerbations of COPD are marked by an increase in
dyspnea, an increase in sputum, and a change in sputum color. Acute exacerbations of COPD
account for more than $10 billion in healthcare expenditures annually in the United States, with
significant morbidity and mortality associated with these exacerbations. Prompt treatment can
improve symptoms and decrease hospitalizations and mortality in this setting. In patients
presenting with hypercarbic respiratory failure in the setting of an acute exacerbation, the
treatment that has demonstrated the strongest reduction in mortality, when compared to
traditional mechanical ventilation, is noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV). NIPPV
also decreases the need for endotracheal intubation, complications, and length of stay in the
hospital. Antibiotics, bronchodilators, and glucocorticoids are all cornerstones of therapy in the
treatment of acute exacerbations in COPD but have not been demonstrated in clinical trials to
have similar mortality benefits in the situation of acute hypercarbic respiratory failure.
Specifically, no benefit is demonstrated for intravenous versus oral corticosteroids. Likewise, the
choice of antibiotic should be made based on local susceptibility patterns, and need for broad-
spectrum antibiotics that cover for Pseudomonas is not typically indicated. Recent studies have
demonstrated that high-flow nasal oxygen may be an effective alternative to NIPPV, with
improved outcomes (need for mechanical ventilation) and improved patient comfort.
39
  The answer is C. (Chap. 314) The only therapies that have been proven to improve survival in
patients with COPD are smoking cessation, oxygen in patients with resting hypoxemia, and lung
volume reduction surgery in a very small subset of highly selected patients. This patient
probably has resting hypoxemia resulting from the presence of an elevated jugular venous pulse,
pedal edema, and elevated hematocrit. Theophylline has been shown to increase exercise
tolerance in patients with COPD through a mechanism other than bronchodilation. Oral
glucocorticoids are not indicated in the absence of an acute exacerbation and may lead to
complications if they are used indiscriminately. Atenolol and enalapril have no specific role in
therapy for COPD but are often used when there is concomitant hypertension or cardiovascular
disease.
VI-40 and VI-41.   The answers are E and C, respectively. (Chap. 315 and Am J Respir Crit Care Med
2015;192(2):238–248) Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common cause of
idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. The disease typically presents with progressive dyspnea on
exertion and dry cough in an older individual. IPF is rare in individuals younger than age 50
years. On physical examination, inspiratory crackles and clubbing are common. Pulmonary
function tests demonstrate restrictive ventilatory defect (low TLC, low RV, low VC) with a low
DLCO. As in the chest HRCT shown, there is typically interstitial fibrosis that is worse in the
bases and begins in the subpleural areas, often associated with traction bronchiectasis and
honeycombing. Atypical findings that should cause one to consider an alternative diagnosis
include the presence of ground-glass infiltrates, nodular opacities, an upper lobe predominance
of disease, and prominent hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Bronchoscopic biopsy is
insufficient for histologic confirmation, and a surgical lung biopsy is required for definitive
diagnosis. The histologic hallmark of IPF is usual interstitial pneumonia, but can also occur in
rheumatologic diseases or due to secondary exposures. In these cases, the prognosis is better
than when the diagnosis is IPF. If no other secondary cause is identified, the diagnosis of IPF is
given. The natural history of IPF is one of continued progression of disease and a high mortality
rate. Acute exacerbations also occur with a rapid progression of symptoms associated with a
pattern of diffuse ground-glass opacities on CT. These are associated with a high mortality. Until
recently, no treatment had been demonstrated to slow progression of disease. Recently, two
therapies have been approved by the FDA for treatment of IPF—nintedanib and pirfenidone (Am
J Respir Crit Care Med 2015;192(2):238–248). Nintedanib is an intracellular tyrosine kinase
inhibitor that inhibits several growth factors including vascular endothelial growth factor,
fibroblast growth factor, and platelet-derived growth factor. A recent trial demonstrated that use
of this medication slowed the rate of decline in FVC and could potentially decrease mortality.
Pirfenidone is an oral antifibrotic medication that has been demonstrated to decrease fibroblast
proliferation and collagen synthesis. It too has also been shown to decrease decline in FVC and
potentially decrease mortality. Therapies that have been shown to not benefit in IPF include
glucocorticoids, immunosuppressant agents, and N-acetylcysteine. Referral for lung CT should be
considered in all patients with a diagnosis of IPF due to the unpredictability of the diagnosis.
42
  The answer is C. (Chap. 315) In many cases of interstitial lung disease, bronchoscopy can offer
some clues to the cause of the disease. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage is a pathologic process that
can occur in many diseases including vasculitis, Goodpasture syndrome, systemic lupus
erythematosus, crack cocaine use, mitral stenosis, and idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis,
among many others. On bronchoscopy, one would expect to see a progressively greater blood
return on sequential aliquots of lavage fluid. Microscopic examination would show hemosiderin-
laden macrophages and red blood cells. Atypical hyperplastic type II pneumocytes are seen in
diffuse alveolar damage or cases of drug toxicity. Ferruginous bodies and dust particles are found
in asbestos-related pulmonary disease. Lymphocytosis is common in hypersensitivity
pneumonitis and sarcoidosis. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis has a low CD4:CD8 ratio, whereas
sarcoidosis has an elevated CD4:CD8 ratio. The bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in pulmonary
alveolar proteinosis has a milky appearance with foamy macrophages.
VI-43 and VI-44.    The answers are E and E, respectively. (Chap. 315) Pulmonary alveolar
proteinosis is a rare disorder that usually presents between ages 30 and 50 years. It is slightly
more common in men. Three distinct subtypes have been described: congenital, acquired, and
secondary (most frequently caused by acute silicosis or hematologic malignancies). Interestingly,
the pathogenesis of the disease has been associated with antibodies to granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in most cases of acquired disease in adults. The pathobiology
of the disease is failure of clearance of pulmonary surfactant. These patients typically present
with subacute dyspnea on exertion with fatigue and low-grade fevers. Associated laboratory
abnormalities 
include 
polycythemia, 
hypergammaglobulinemia, 
and 
increased 
lactate
dehydrogenase levels. Elevated serum levels of lung surfactant proteins A and D have been
described, and autoantibodies to GM-CSF can be found in both the serum and bronchoalveolar
lavage fluid. Classically, the CT appearance is described as “crazy pavement” with ground-glass
alveolar infiltrates in a perihilar distribution and intervening areas of normal lung.
Bronchoalveolar lavage is diagnostic, with large amounts of amorphous proteinaceous material
seen. Macrophages filled with periodic acid-Schiff–positive material are also frequently seen. The
treatment of choice is whole-lung lavage through a double-lumen endotracheal tube. Survival at
5 years is higher than 95%, although some patients will need a repeat whole-lung lavage.
Treatment of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis with GM-CSF remains experimental.
45
  The answer is D. (Chap. 315) This patient is presenting with subacute pulmonary symptoms,
intermittent fevers, myalgias, and malaise. The biopsy shows a pattern of cryptogenic organizing
pneumonia (COP). COP (formerly bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia) usually
presents in the fifth or sixth decades with a flulike illness. Symptoms include fevers, malaise,
weight loss, cough, and dyspnea. Inspiratory crackles are common, and late inspiratory squeaks
may also be heard. Pulmonary function testing reveals restrictive lung disease. The typical
pattern on chest HRCT is patchy areas of airspace consolidation, nodular opacities, and ground-
glass opacities that occur more frequently in the lower lung zones. Pathology shows the presence
of granulation tissue plugging airways, alveolar ducts, and alveoli. There is frequently chronic
inflammation in the alveolar interstitium. Treatment with high-dose steroids is effective in two-
thirds of individuals, with most individuals being able to be tapered to lower doses over the first
year. Azathioprine is an immunosuppressive therapy that is commonly used in interstitial lung
disease due to usual interstitial pneumonitis. While it may be considered in COP unresponsive to
glucocorticoids, it would not be a first-line agent used without concomitant steroid therapy.
Because most patients with COP respond to corticosteroids, referral for lung transplantation is
not required unless there is a failure to respond to therapy. Nintedanib and pirfenidone are
treatments for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
46
  The answer is C. (Chap. 316) Empyema refers to the presence of a grossly purulent pleural
effusion, which is present in this clinical scenario. The management of an empyema requires
placement of a chest tube for drainage, and a recent randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial
demonstrated improved outcomes with use of both alteplase (tissue plasminogen activator) and
deoxyribonuclease (DNase) twice daily for 3 days beginning within the first day after chest tube
placement. The trial was conducted using a factorial design comparing the combination therapy
to placebo and to either therapy alone. The combination of alteplase and DNase showed
improved resolution of pleural fluid, shorter duration of hospital stay, and lesser need for
surgical intervention when compared to placebo or either therapy alone (Rahman NM et al: N
Engl J Med 2011;365:518–526).
47
  The answer is C. (Chap. 316) Tension pneumothorax is a life-threatening complication that
must be rapidly recognized and alleviated. If undetected, it will rapidly progress to
cardiovascular collapse and death. Tension pneumothorax most commonly occurs during
mechanical ventilation and during resuscitative efforts. An initial sign during mechanical
ventilation is high peak inspiratory pressures or difficulty with ventilation. Hypotension and
hypoxemia are signs of impending cardiovascular collapse and are caused by decreased venous
return to the heart and reduced cardiac output. The physical examination may show absence of
breath sounds on the affected side with enlargement of the hemithorax, hyperresonance to
percussion, and mediastinal shift to the contralateral side. A chest radiograph would be
confirmatory, but in an acute setting, there may not be time to obtain the testing. If clinical
suspicion is high, treatment should not be delayed as tension pneumothorax is a medical
emergency and the patient is likely to die if the tension is not relieved. A large-bore needle
should be placed into the pleural space through the second anterior intercostal space. If a large
amount of air escapes after the needle is inserted, the diagnosis is confirmed. The needle should
remain in place until definitive treatment with a tube thoracostomy can be performed.
48
  The answer is E. (Chap. 316) Parapneumonic effusions are one of the most common causes of
the exudative pleural effusion. When an effusion is identified in association with pneumonia, it is
prudent to perform a thoracentesis if the fluid can be safely accessed. One way to know whether
there is enough fluid for thoracentesis is to perform a lateral decubitus film and observe if there
is free-flowing fluid at a volume of >10 mm from the chest wall. However, if the fluid does not
layer, this may indicate a complex loculated fluid. A loculated effusion often indicates an
infected effusion and may require chest tube drainage or surgical intervention. Other factors that
are associated with the need for more invasive procedures include pleural fluid pH <7.20,
pleural fluid glucose <60 mg/dL (<3.3 mmol/L), positive Gram stain or culture of the pleural
fluid, and presence of gross pus in the pleural space (empyema). Fluid recurrence following
initial thoracentesis does indicate a complicated pleural effusion, but a repeat thoracentesis
should be performed to ensure no concerning features have developed.
49
  The answer is A. (Chap. 316) The characteristics of the pleural fluid in this patient are
consistent with an exudate by Light’s criteria. These criteria are as follows: pleural fluid
protein/serum protein ratio >0.5, pleural fluid lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)/serum LDH ratio
>0.6, and pleural fluid LDH more than two-thirds of the upper limit of normal serum values. If
one of the criteria is met, then the effusion would be classified as an exudate. This patient clearly
meets the criteria for an exudate. Exudative pleural effusions occur when there are alterations in
the local environment that change the formation and absorption of pleural fluid. The most
common causes of exudative pleural effusion are infection and malignancy. Other less common
causes include pulmonary embolism, chylothorax, autoimmune diseases, asbestos exposure, drug
reactions, hemothorax, and following cardiac surgery or other cardiac injury, among others.
Unfortunately, 25% of transudative effusions can be incorrectly identified as exudates by these
criteria. Most often, this occurs when the effusion has an increased number of cells to cause an
elevation in the LDH or has been treated with diuretics to cause an increase in pleural fluid
protein. Transudative effusions are most often caused by heart failure, but can also be seen in
cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, and myxedema.
50
  The answer is B. (Chap. 316) A primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs in the absence of
trauma to the thorax. Most individuals who present with a primary spontaneous pneumothorax
are young, and primary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs almost exclusively in cigarette
smokers, the primary risk factor. Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is also more common in
men and has been associated with a tall, thin body habitus. The primary cause is the rupture of
small apical pleural blebs or cysts, and the CT scan of the chest is often normal. About half of
individuals will experience more than one primary spontaneous pneumothorax. The initial
treatment is simple needle aspiration, which is most commonly done with ultrasound or CT
guidance. Oxygen is given simultaneously to speed resorption of the residual air in the pleural
space. If conservative treatment fails, tube thoracostomy can be performed. Pneumothoraces that
fail to resolve or are recurrent often require thoracoscopy with stapling of blebs and pleural
abrasion, a treatment that is effective in almost 100% of cases.
51
  The answer is B. (Chap. 317) Chronic fibrosing mediastinitis most commonly occurs after
granulomatous inflammation in the lymph nodes in the mediastinum that leads to an exuberant
calcification response. Over time, the inflammation can cause significant disruption to the vital
structures that course through the mediastinum and lead to the clinical symptoms of fibrosing
mediastinitis. The most common causes of fibrosing mediastinitis are histoplasmosis and
tuberculosis. Other causes include sarcoidosis, silicosis, or other fungal diseases. Symptoms are
related to compression of mediastinal structures including the superior vena cava, pulmonary
arteries or veins, or large airway compression. The phrenic or recurrent laryngeal nerves may
also become paralyzed. The most common symptom is dyspnea on exertion. Patients may also
develop chronic cough with lithoptysis or hemoptysis due to erosion of the calcific lymph nodes
into airways. Patients may describe lithoptysis as gritty or sandy sputum. Hemoptysis can be
large volume and may necessitate surgical intervention for control. However, other than
antituberculous therapy for tuberculous mediastinitis, no medical or surgical therapy has any
effectiveness on the treatment of fibrosing mediastinitis. This patient most likely has
histoplasmosis as the cause of her disease because histoplasmosis is endemic in Indiana. Because
the fibrosing mediastinitis is a sequela of an old infection, the urine Histoplasma antigen test
would not yield a positive result.
52
  The answer is E. (Chap. 318) Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a disorder of chronic
hypoventilation that has an unknown prevalence as no large population studies have been
conducted. However, the prevalence is expected to increase as the prevalence of obesity is rising
worldwide. OHS requires a body mass index >30 kg/m2 and the presence of chronic alveolar
hypoventilation for diagnosis, with a daytime awake PaCO2 ≥45 mmHg. In more than 90% of
cases, concomitant obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is also present. The pathogenesis of OHS is not
fully understood, although it is known that there is a downregulation of the central respiratory
drive in response to carbon dioxide. Multiple physiologic factors acting together likely lead to
this including OSA, increased work of breathing, respiratory muscle impairment, V/Q
mismatching, and depressed central chemo-responsiveness to hypoxemia and hypercarbia. Most
patients present with daytime sleepiness, headaches, and symptoms typical of OSA. These
patients should be treated with weight loss and positive airway pressure therapy. Sustained
weight loss will lead to improvements in PaCO2 over time. Continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP) therapy does lead to improvement in daytime hypercapnia and hypoxemia in more than
half of patients with OHS and OSA but is not recommended for use if patients have sustained
hypoxemia after resolution of obstructive apneic events. In these individuals bilevel positive
airway pressure (BiPAP) therapy is used. BiPAP is also used if a patient cannot tolerate the
typically high levels of CPAP required for treatment. Some patients with OHS may present
acutely with decompensated symptoms of right heart failure and respiratory failure as in this
scenario. When a patient presents in acute decompensated OHS, BiPAP is the treatment of choice
acutely as well. Even in patients who have previously failed home noninvasive therapy, this
remains the treatment of choice for their acute condition and may prevent intubation and
mechanical ventilation. The PHOX2b gene mutation plays no role in OHS but is associated with
congenital central hypoventilation syndromes.
53
  The answer is E. (Chap. 318) Patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) often develop
hypoventilation due to involvement of their respiratory pump muscles (e.g., diaphragm,
intercostal muscles, sternocleidomastoids). NIPPV has been used successfully in the therapy of
patients with hypoventilation such as ALS. Nocturnal NIPPV can improve daytime hypercapnia,
prolong survival, and improve health-related quality of life. Current ALS guidelines are to
institute NIPPV if symptoms of hypoventilation exist and PaCO2 is ≥45 mmHg, nocturnal
desaturation to <89% is documented for 5 consecutive minutes, maximal inspiratory pressure is
<60 cmH2O, or FVC is <50% predicted. Symptoms of hypoventilation are not particular to ALS
and may include the following: dyspnea during activities of daily living, orthopnea in diseases
that affect diaphragm function, poor-quality sleep, daytime hypersomnolence, early morning
headaches, anxiety, and impaired cough in neuromuscular disease.
54
  The answer is B. (Chap. 319) Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is a
common condition estimated to affect up to 2%–15% of middle-aged individuals and >20% of
elderly individuals and is associated with repeated collapse of the upper airway during sleep.
This patient exhibits multiple risk factors and gives a strong history to support a diagnosis of
OSAHS, placing him at high risk to have moderate to severe OSAHS. The greatest risk factor the
patient has that places him at high risk for disease is obesity. Approximately 40%–60% of cases
of OSAHS are attributable to excess body weight. The second major risk factor for OSAHS is
male sex because men are two to four times more likely to have OSAHS than women. The
reasons men develop more OSAHS include greater central obesity and relatively longer
pharyngeal length, which in turn contribute to greater upper airway collapsibility. In addition,
female sex hormones provide a stabilizing effect on the upper airway and stimulate ventilatory
drive. Thus, premenopausal women are relatively protected from OSAHS at comparable levels of
obesity when compared to men. Other risk factors that this patient has include a positive family
history of the disease and hypertension. Other common risk factors for OSAHS in the general
population include craniofacial abnormalities, adenotonsillar hypertrophy, various endocrine
syndromes (acromegaly, hypothyroidism), increasing age, and some ethnic groups. For instance,
individuals of Asian descent often develop OSAHS at a lower range of body mass index, most
likely due to ethnic difference in craniofacial structure. In addition, individuals of African
American race are at higher risk of OSAHS when compared to whites. This patient also gives
many symptoms that are concerning for OSAHS including loud snoring, witnessed apneas, and
daytime sleepiness. Given that there is a high clinical suspicion of disease, home sleep testing
will likely be adequate for diagnosis of disease in this patient. Home sleep tests can be performed
in a variety of ways, but most will record respiratory effort, nasal flow, and oxygen saturation. In
a patient with a high suspicion of disease, these tests can be a cost-efficient means of diagnosis.
However, the home tests may yield false-negative results because these tests do not measure the
electroencephalogram, and thus, no accurate measure of sleep time is obtained. Therefore, the
respiratory events are determined based on total recording time rather than total sleep time. If a
patient is awake during much of the recording time, this could cause a false-negative result. An
attended in-lab polysomnogram remains the gold standard for diagnosis OSAHS but is
significantly more expensive. In this individual with a high pretest suspicion of disease, the cost
would not be justified. An overnight oximetry provides only oxygen levels and heart rate and is
not adequate for diagnosis of OSAHS. Treatment with a CPAP device may be recommended after
a diagnosis is confirmed, but this would not be the next step in the treatment of the patient. The
patient has only minimally enlarged tonsils. A tonsillectomy would not be expected to alleviate
his symptoms.
55
  The answer is E. (Chap. 319) There are numerous benefits to treating OSAHS, and the
consequences of untreated OSAHS are numerous and can be severe. They primarily fall in one of
three categories: neurocognitive, cardiovascular, and metabolic. The neurocognitive effects are
the ones most readily identified by the patient and include daytime sleepiness and inability to
concentrate. In addition, individuals with untreated OSAHS have an increased risk of depression,
particularly somatic depression with irritability, fatigue, and lack of energy. Moreover, untreated
OSAHS increases the risk of occupational accidents by more than twofold and automobile
accidents by as much as sevenfold. In addition to the neurocognitive effects, untreated OSA leads
to increased sympathetic nervous system activity and increased systemic inflammatory
responses. This leads to a loss of the normal nocturnal fall in blood pressure. However, treatment
with CPAP can reduce 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, although the overall effect on blood
pressure is modest, decreasing the blood pressure about by 2–4 mmHg. Other cardiovascular and
metabolic effects include an increased risk of coronary artery disease, heart failure with and
without reduced ejection fraction, atrial and ventricular arrhythmias, atherosclerosis, stroke, and
diabetes. Treatment with CPAP yields improvements in insulin resistance, decreases the
recurrence rate of atrial fibrillation, and reduces several biomarkers of cardiovascular disease.
56
  The answer is E. (Chap. 319) Cheyne-Stokes respiration is a type of central sleep apnea
associated with hypocapnia and demonstrates a crescendo-decrescendo pattern of breathing.
Pathophysiologically, this occurs because the baseline carbon dioxide during wakefulness is
below the apneic threshold during sleep. Thus, at sleep onset, a central apneic event occurs
allowing carbon dioxide to rise. When this rise in carbon dioxide is detected centrally, there is an
exaggerated respiratory response that leads to hyperpnea and hyperventilation, driving the
carbon dioxide levels below the apneic threshold again, creating a self-perpetuating cycle of
apnea and hyperpnea. It occurs more commonly in individuals with heart failure or atrial
fibrillation due to a delay in circulation time. This prolonged circulation delay between the
pulmonary capillaries and the central carbon dioxide–sensing chemoreceptors contributes to
these ongoing cycles of hyperpnea and apnea. In many individuals with Cheyne-Stokes
respiration, it has been observed that the pattern of breathing may worsen over the course of the
night and the fluid is redistributed centrally, further prolonging circulation time.
57
  The answer is A. (Chap. 319) The treatment of choice for most adults with OSAHS is nasal
CPAP. CPAP delivers a set pressure that is sufficient to overcome the tendency of the posterior
oropharynx to collapse. This pressure ranges generally from 5–15 cmH2O, although pressures as
high as 20 cmH2O can be used. However, the rates of adherence to CPAP therapy are highly
variable. Many patients complain of claustrophobia, nasal congestion, aerophagia, or facial pain.
If tolerated, there is a large body of data demonstrating beneficial effects of CPAP on blood
pressure, alertness, mood, and insulin sensitivity, and likely improvement in cardiovascular
outcomes. Oral appliance therapy is generally considered second-line therapy in mild to
moderate OSA if the patient fails to tolerate CPAP. It can be prescribed as initial therapy if the
patient prefers. In most studies, the improvement in the apnea-hypopnea index with oral
appliance is ≥50% in about two-thirds of individuals. Side effects of oral appliances include
temporomandibular joint pain and tooth movement. Surgical interventions for OSAHS in adults
have provided less than desired benefits, and it can be difficult to determine which patients will
derive 
the 
greatest 
benefits 
in 
the 
absence 
of 
a 
known 
anatomic 
abnormality.
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty is the most common surgical procedure over the past two decades
and is associated with a success rate similar to oral appliance therapy. Weight loss is generally
recommended for all patients with OSAHS but should not be the only therapy recommended for
an individual with this degree of OSAHS. Supplemental oxygen can improve oxygen saturation,
but there is little evidence that it improves OSAHS symptoms and the apnea-hypopnea index.
58
  The answer is D. (Chap. 320e) Common indications for lung transplantation include COPD,
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, CF, emphysema, and pulmonary arterial hypertension (Table VI-
58). Five-year survival is similar for all indications for lung transplantation at approximately
50%. For most indications, double lung transplantation is the preferred procedure, and it is
mandatory for patients with suppurative lung disease like CF. In general, in patients with
idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, double lung transplantation is preferred because of
concern of overcirculation in the low-resistance vascular bed transplanted lung when a native
lung is present with markedly elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. It is rare for the primary
disease to recur after transplantation, and this has not been described in idiopathic pulmonary
arterial hypertension. The right ventricle is highly plastic and will generally recover function
after elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is removed by lung transplantation. Subsequently,
it is rare to perform heart-lung transplantation in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients
unless there is concomitant complex congenital heart disease that cannot be repaired at the time
of lung transplantation.
TALBLE VI-58   Disease-Specific Guidelines for Referral and Transplantation
59
  The answer is A. (Chap. 320e) The long-term complications of lung transplantation are
multisystem and range from the diseases that affect the lung and are complications of a foreign
body in the chest to distant organ disease, either due to infections or complications of
immunosuppressive therapy. Although osteoporosis, posttransplantation lymphoproliferative
disorders, and chronic kidney disease are important complications of steroids, calcineurin
inhibitors, and other agents used for immunosuppression, the major complications after
transplantation are in the lung. Primary graft dysfunction is a form of acute lung injury
immediately after lung transplantation that is relatively rare, with severe disease occurring in
only 10%–20% of cases. Airway complications such as anastomotic dehiscence or stenosis have
similar occurrence rates, but can usually be managed bronchoscopically with good survival.
Rejection of transplanted organ is very common and is the main limitation to better medium-
and long-term outcomes. Rejection occurs as acute cellular rejection often presenting with
cough, low-grade fever, dyspnea, infiltrates on radiographs, and declining lung function. In
contrast, chronic rejection typically presents with advancing obstruction on pulmonary function
testing, 
no 
infiltrates, 
and 
worsening 
dyspnea 
on 
exertion. 
This 
constellation 
in
posttransplantation patients is termed bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome. Fifty percent of lung
transplant patients have some degree of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome, and it is the main
impediment to better long-term survival. Therapy often involves augmented immunosuppression,
although there is no consensus of how to do this or the duration of this augmentation.
60
  The answer is B. (Chap. 320e) Chronic kidney disease is a common finding in patients after
lung transplantation and is associated with poorer outcomes. Although rarely patients may have
hemolytic-uremic syndrome underlying the kidney disease, it is usually acute, and the most
common etiology of gradually progressive decline in renal function is calcineurin inhibitor
neuropathy. Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are calcineurin inhibitors commonly used in
immunosuppressive regimens after lung transplantation. The exact mechanism of this toxicity is
unclear but may include a direct toxicity of inhibition of the calcineurin-NFAT system within the
kidney, alteration in glomerular blood flow, and host-environment interactions within the kidney
with calcineurin inhibitors. Prednisone, albuterol, and mycophenolate mofetil are not known to
be nephrotoxic.
61
  The answer is A. (Chap. 321) Several different severity of illness (SOI) scores have been
developed for use in critically ill populations. Two of the most common systems are the Acute
Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) score and the Simplified Acute
Physiology (SAPS II) score. SOI scores are primarily useful as tools to assess populations of
critically ill individuals, but the scores do not perform well at predicting individual patient
outcomes. These scores are used primarily in clinical trials to compare SOI between groups of
patients enrolled in trials. These scores are also used by hospital administrations to assess quality
of intensive care unit (ICU) care over time and also to help determine appropriate nursing and
ancillary support staffing levels. No SOI score should be used to direct an individual patient’s
care, although decision support tools based on SOI scores are being investigated. The APACHE II
score is the most commonly used SOI score. This score assigns values based on a variety of
demographic, medical history, and clinical values taking the worst value in the first 24 hours
after admission. Population mortality ranges based on published values range from <5%–10%
for scores between 0 and 4 and as high as 80%–90% for scores ≥35 points. Updated versions of
the APACHE score (APACHE III and IV) have been published. The SAPS II score is more
frequently used in Europe. This score is not disease specific, although it does add higher values
for AIDS, metastatic cancer, or hematologic malignancy. Both scores are used in a similar
manner.
62
  The answer is C. (Chap. 321) Oxygen delivery (QO2) is a function of both cardiac output (CO)
and the oxygen content of the blood (CaO2) and can be expressed by the following equation:
QO2 = CO × [1.39 × hemoglobin × SaO2 + (0.003 × PaO2)]
From this equation, the effect of PaO2 on overall oxygen delivery is negligible. Nearly all oxygen
delivered to the tissues is bound to hemoglobin. One can improve oxygen delivery by increasing
cardiac output, increasing hemoglobin, or improving oxygen saturation.
63
  The answer is C. (Chap. 321) In patients admitted to the ICU, one of the most important
aspects of care is to prevent complications that may occur during the process of care. One of the
most common complications is nosocomial infections, including hospital- or ventilator-acquired
pneumonia, catheter-related bloodstream infections, urinary tract infections, and Clostridium
difficile infection. It is important to remove indwelling devices such as central lines, urinary
catheters, and endotracheal tubes as soon as clinically possible. Another important preventative
measure to decrease nosocomial infections includes ensuring appropriate sterile procedures for
device insertion. Using care bundles and emphasizing good hand washing protocols are
important strategies for decreasing nosocomial infections. Individuals in the ICU are also at
increased risk of deep venous thrombosis due to immobility and often have factors that increase
hypercoagulability. Standard interventions to prevent deep venous thrombosis include use of
low-molecular-weight heparin or low-dose heparin along with sequential compression devices.
Protection against development of stress ulcers is accomplished with histamine-2 blockers or
proton pump inhibitors. The patients who benefit most from stress ulcer prophylaxis are those
with coagulopathy, shock, or respiratory failure. Enteral nutrition is preferred over parenteral
nutrition, although no definitive data demonstrate that early use of enteral nutrition provides
benefit. ICU-acquired weakness is also a common complication of ICU care. The mechanisms are
poorly understood. Interventions that may improve functional outcomes in critical illness include
early physical and occupational therapy. Use of tight glucose control with intensive insulin
therapy was thought to improve ICU outcomes, but further study has demonstrated no benefits
on nosocomial infection and increased hypoglycemia with this mode of therapy.
VI-64 and VI-65.    The answers are E and A, respectively. (Chap. 322) This patient has evidence of
severe ARDS. The annual incidence of ARDS is 60 cases per 100,000 population. In individuals
admitted to the ICU with respiratory failure, approximately 20% of these will meet the criteria
for ARDS, although it is generally underrecognized in the ICU population. ARDS is a clinical
syndrome of severe dyspnea of rapid onset, hypoxemia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates that
may lead to respiratory failure. There are myriad causes of ARDS, including sepsis, pneumonia,
aspiration pneumonitis, trauma, acute pancreatitis, multiple transfusions, and toxic inhalation
injury among others. The most common causes of ARDS are sepsis and pneumonia, which cause
about 40%–50% of all cases of ARDS. Clinically, ARDS is diagnosed in the presence of acute
bilateral pulmonary infiltrates and hypoxemia without evidence of increased left atrial filling
pressure. A consensus panel has recently revised the definition of ARDS into three categories of
mild, moderate, and severe based on degree of hypoxemia as determined by the ratio of PaO2 to
FiO2, commonly called P:F ratio. Mild ARDS is present if PaO2/FiO2 is ≤300 mmHg, but >200
mm Hg. Moderate ARDS is diagnosed when PaO2/FiO2 is ≤200 mmHg and >100 mmHg.
Severe ARDS is diagnosed when PaO2/FiO2 is ≤100 mmHg. In this case, the ratio of PaO2 to
FiO2 is 80 mmHg, placing the patient in the category of severe ARDS. The natural history of
ARDS is three stages: exudative, proliferative, and fibrotic. In the early exudative stage of ARDS,
there is an acute injury to alveolar capillary endothelial cells and type I pneumocytes. This
results in loss of the normal alveolar barrier with subsequent leakage of protein-rich fluid into
the alveoli (noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). In the early phase, the inflammatory cell
infiltrate is predominantly neutrophils. Pathologically, the finding is described as diffuse alveolar
damage. Hyaline membranes and loss of type I pneumocytes are seen. The exudative phase of
ARDS lasts for approximately the first 7 days of illness. The second phase of ARDS is the
proliferative phase, which begins around day 7 and continues through day 21. Most patients
recover during this phase and are able to be liberated from mechanical ventilation.
Histologically, early signs of repair can be seen in this phase with shift to a lymphocyte-
predominant infiltrate, proliferation of type II pneumocytes, and organization of the alveolar
predominant infiltrate, proliferation of type II pneumocytes, and organization of the alveolar
edema. Only a few individuals who develop ARDS fail to recover during the proliferative phase
and continue into the fibrotic stage of the disease. Pathologically, individuals who develop
fibrotic ARDS demonstrate extensive alveolar and interstitial fibrosis at sites of prior alveolar
edema. The acinar architecture frequently becomes distorted, leading to development of
emphysematous changes with large bullae. Fibrotic proliferation may also occur in the intima of
pulmonary vasculature, leading to development of pulmonary hypertension. Given the timing of
the presentation, this patient would be expected to be in the exudative phase of ARDS and
exhibit diffuse alveolar damage, loss of type I pneumocytes, and hyaline membranes.
66
  The answer is B. (Chap. 322) This individual has severe ARDS due to trauma, a pulmonary
contusion, and possible transfusion-related lung injury. Mechanical ventilation is frequently
necessary for individuals suffering from ARDS and has been essential for prolonging life and
improving mortality from this disorder. However, appropriate ventilator management is
necessary to prevent further morbidity from ventilator-associated lung injury. ARDS is not
experienced uniformly across the lung tissue. The dependent portions of the lungs are typically
the most affected, while other areas of the lung may be spared. The portions of the lung that are
most affected are poorly compliant and are prone to alveolar collapse. Alternatively, the more
normal portions of the lungs have better lung compliance. With positive-pressure ventilation,
ventilator-associated lung injury may occur as a result of overdistention of the more normal
areas of the lung with resultant perpetuation of alveolar damage and capillary leak in these
areas. In the poorly compliant areas, respirations initiated by the ventilator can lead to repetitive
opening and closure of alveoli, causing further damage in these areas. Because of this, a strategy
that employs low tidal volumes to prevent alveolar overdistention and recurrent alveolar
collapse is recommended. The ARDS Network conducted a clinical trial that compared low tidal
volume ventilation to conventional ventilation and demonstrated improved mortality with the
low tidal volume strategy (31% vs. 40%). The recommended initial tidal volume setting is 6
mL/kg of ideal body weight. This strategy is recommended in all patients with ARDS, and the
improvement in outcomes is not affected by obesity.
67
  The answer is D. (Chap. 322) Hypoxemia in ARDS results in shunt physiology with the
presence of alveolar and interstitial fluid and loss of surfactant. In turn, there is significant loss
of lung compliance and development of alveolar collapse that is worse in the dependent portions
of the lungs. During mechanical ventilation, the goal is to minimize overdistention of less
affected areas of the lungs while maximizing alveolar recruitment. Positive end-expiratory
pressure (PEEP) is used to prevent alveolar collapse at end-expiration. Trials of mechanical
ventilation with high-PEEP compared to low-PEEP strategies did not show any differences in
outcomes when a low tidal volume ventilation strategy was used. More recently, a trial used a
strategy that involved constructing static pressure-volume curves of the lung on the mechanical
ventilator. With this strategy, a lower inflection point can be calculated. This point identifies the
pressure at which the alveoli open. In ARDS, this point is typically 12–15 cmH2O. In theory,
setting the PEEP to this pressure will maximize oxygenation and prevent lung injury. Trials of
this mode of ventilation improve lung function and may have an effect on mortality. More
recently, strategies employing esophageal pressure catheters to estimate optimal transpulmonary
pressure are being studied to determine the effects on oxygenation, duration of mechanical
ventilation, and mortality.
68
  The answer is B. (Chap. 322 and N Engl J Med 2006;354:2564–2575) Optimal fluid
management in ARDS is felt to be important to minimize extravasation of fluid into the
interstitium and alveolar spaces. However, in individuals with septic shock or other causes of
hypotension, expansion of fluid volume to optimal levels is important in the management of
hypotension. Whether an aggressive or conservative fluid management strategy was most
important in acute lung injury was not known as there were concerns that a conservative fluid
management strategy would increase the likelihood of end-organ failure, especially acute kidney
injury. A trial sponsored by the ARDS Network attempted to answer this question by
randomizing individuals with acute lung injury to a conservative versus liberal fluid
management strategy. This trial demonstrated that a conservative fluid management strategy to
management strategy. This trial demonstrated that a conservative fluid management strategy to
maintain low left atrial pressure improved pulmonary mechanics and oxygenation while
decreasing the duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay, and mortality. At the same time,
there was no increased incidence of acute kidney injury.
69
  The answer is C. (Chap. 323) Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) refers to respiratory support that is
provided through a tight-fitting face mask or nasal mask. NIV can be administered with bilevel
positive expiratory pressure ventilation or pressure support ventilation. Both modes of
ventilation provide a higher positive pressure with inspiration and decrease to a lower pressure
with expiration to decrease work of breathing and provide assisted ventilation. The major
difficulty with using NIV clinically is poor patient tolerance due to the use of a tight-fitting mask
and psychological discomfort and anxiety. The primary group of individuals who have benefited
from the use of NIV are those with acute exacerbations of COPD. In those with COPD, several
randomized trials have shown low failure rates in individuals with pH of 7.25 to 7.35, along
with decreased need for invasive ventilation, decreased length of ICU stay, and decreased
mortality in some studies. In those with pH >7.35, NIV confers no benefit over standard
therapy. In those with pH <7.25, use of NIV has a higher failure rate that is inversely
proportional to the degree of acidosis. Another group of individuals who may benefit from NIV
are those with decompensated systolic heart failure with respiratory acidosis. In these
individuals, a large clinical trial demonstrated a decreased need for invasive mechanical
ventilation. NIV in these individuals decreased both preload and afterload and can provide
assistance to the failing heart (Gray A, et al: N Engl J Med 2008;359(2):142–151). A last group
for which NIV has shown promise is in individuals immediately after extubation, especially
individuals with COPD or hypercapnic respiratory failure. NIV is associated with higher failure
rates in individuals with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and ARDS. Invasive mechanical
ventilation is the ventilatory method of choice in these individuals, although not strictly
contraindicated. Contraindications to mechanical ventilation include absence of spontaneous
respirations, cardiac or respiratory arrest, severe encephalopathy, severe gastrointestinal bleed,
hemodynamic instability, unstable angina or acute myocardial infarction, facial surgery or
trauma, upper airway obstruction, inability to protect airway, and inability to clear secretions.
VI-70, VI-71, VI-72, and VI-73.   The answers are C, B, A, and D, respectively. (Chap. 323)
Mechanical ventilation can be delivered in many different modes, which refers to the manner in
which the breaths are triggered, cycled, and delivered. The most common mode of mechanical
ventilation is assist-control. This mode is volume cycled and flow limited. An inspiratory cycle
may be triggered by patient effort or, if there is no patient effort within a specific time, by a
timer within the ventilator. Each breath, whether triggered by patient effort or the ventilator,
delivers an operator-specified tidal volume. This mode is frequently the initial mode of
mechanical ventilation when a patient is intubated as it ensures a known minute ventilation in
the absence of respiratory effort. Common difficulties with the use of assist-control ventilation
are asynchrony with the ventilator and tachypnea, which can lead to respiratory alkalosis and/or
generation of dynamic hyperinflation. This occurs when a patient triggers an inspiratory cycle
before a full exhalation occurs. Commonly known as auto-PEEP, dynamic hyperinflation can lead
to decreased venous return and a fall in cardiac output. It may also lead to barotrauma,
including pneumothorax and pneumomediastinum. Intermittent mandatory ventilation (IMV) is
a mixed mode of ventilation. IMV is primarily a volume-cycled and flow-limited mode of
ventilation and is most often delivered in a synchronized mode (SIMV). The ventilator will
deliver a mandatory number of breaths at a specified tidal volume. If a patient breathes only at
the set respiratory rate, SIMV is essentially the same as assist-control ventilation. When a patient
breathes above the set respiratory rate, the spontaneous breaths may be unassisted or assisted
with a pressure support mode of ventilation. SIMV was commonly used as a weaning mode of
ventilation, but clinical trials have shown that trials of spontaneous breathing lead to a shorter
duration of mechanical ventilation and more rapid extubation. Pressure control ventilation (PCV)
is time triggered, time cycled, and pressure limited. This mode is often used in individuals who
have preexisting barotrauma or for postoperative thoracic surgery patients. It is also used in
ARDS to limit ventilator-induced lung injury. In PCV, there is no prespecified minimum tidal
ARDS to limit ventilator-induced lung injury. In PCV, there is no prespecified minimum tidal
volume or minute ventilation. Rather, a specified pressure is set during inspiration by the
operator, and the tidal volume and inspiratory flow rate are dependent upon lung compliance.
Pressure support ventilation (PSV) is patient triggered, flow cycled, and pressure limited. PSV
requires a patient to spontaneously initiate respiration because no machine-delivered breaths are
given. PSV provides graded assistance through application of an inspiratory pressure that
augments spontaneous respiration. The pressure support falls to a specified expiratory pressure
when the flow falls below a certain rate. PSV is often combined with SIMV to augment the
spontaneously generated breaths. PSV also is used in ventilator weaning as it is generally well
tolerated.
74
  The answer is C. (Chap. 323) Spontaneous breathing trials (SBTs) have been determined to be
the best way to assess whether a patient has recovered sufficiently from respiratory failure to be
extubated. An SBT can be implemented via T-piece, CPAP at low levels of pressure (1–5 cmH2O),
or pressure support ventilation applied to offset the resistance of the endotracheal tube. A
patient will undergo an SBT from 30 minutes to 2 hours to determine if respiration can be
maintained to support liberation from mechanical ventilation. It is important to recognize which
patients are appropriate to undergo SBT. The following conditions predict patients who are
ready for weaning attempts: (1) lung injury is stable or resolving; (2) gas exchange is adequate,
with PEEP generally <8 cmH2O and FiO2 <0.5; (3) hemodynamic parameters are stable
without need for ongoing vasopressor support; and (4) the patient has spontaneous respiratory
activity.
75
  The answer is A. (Chap. 324) Shock is a complex pathophysiologic process that occurs in
response to a decline in tissue perfusion. Clinically, shock states manifest with a mean arterial
pressure <60 mmHg. This nonspecific term can be caused by many different etiologies including
sepsis, hypovolemia, trauma, hypoadrenal states, neurologic causes, and cardiac causes. Shock
states result in a decrease in tissue oxygen delivery. In turn, this creates a multifaceted response
that can become a self-perpetuating process that leads to further tissue injury. Hypotension
disinhibits the vasomotor center, leading to increased adrenergic output and decreased vagal
tone. Norepinephrine leads to significant splanchnic and peripheral vasoconstriction in an
attempt to maintain cerebral and cardiac blood flow. Other constrictor substances are secreted as
well including angiotensin II, vasopressin, endothelin-1, and thromboxane A2. In addition, there
is pressure to maintain intravascular fluid volume through alterations in hydrostatic pressure and
osmolarity. However, constriction of arterioles leads to reduction in capillary hydrostatic
pressure and the number of capillary beds perfused. This limits the capillary surface area
available for perfusion with the resultant increase in vascular oncotic pressure. This in turn leads
to a net reabsorption of fluid into the vascular bed. Metabolic changes including glycolysis,
lipolysis, and proteolysis further increase interstitial and intravascular volume at the expense of
intracellular volume due to their effects on raising extracellular osmolarity. Within the cells,
there is rapid depletion of high-energy phosphate stores. This leads to mitochondrial dysfunction
with uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation with accumulation of reactive oxygen species,
lactate, and hydrogen ions. The byproducts of anaerobic metabolism can overcome the
compensatory vasoconstrictor mechanisms and lead to further hypotension. Extensive
proinflammatory pathways are activated in shock and contribute to the development of multiple
organ dysfunction and failure. After the initial insult, a counterregulatory process should be
initiated to balance the proinflammatory response. In individuals who have an excessive
proinflammatory response that cannot be effectively regulated, the inflammatory process may
continue unregulated and lead to further organ injury and failure. At the system level, shock
affects a variety of endocrine, cardiac, pulmonary, and renal processes, among others. In
addition to increases in norepinephrine, the stress associated with shock increases
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) to increase cortisol secretion. Renin is also released in
response to adrenergic discharge and decreased renal perfusion. Renin induces the formation of
angiotensin I, which is converted to the active angiotensin II, which is a potent vasoconstrictor.
Angiotensin II also stimulates release of aldosterone and vasopressin. The cardiac response to
shock is to initially compensate by increasing heart rate. Many causes of shock, however, are
shock is to initially compensate by increasing heart rate. Many causes of shock, however, are
associated with depression of myocardial contractility such that stroke volume is decreased for
any given filling pressure. The pulmonary response may lead to development of noncardiogenic
pulmonary edema, ARDS, and decreased lung compliance. Finally, the kidney responds to shock
by conserving salt and water.
76
  The answer is E. (Chap. 324) Different causes of shock are associated with different physiologic
findings throughout the vascular system. Although rarely used in most cases of shock, a
pulmonary artery catheter can be used to measure these values. However, it is important to
understand pathologically what occurs in the vascular system. The typical measured variables
include cardiac output (CO), systemic vascular resistance (SVR), mixed venous oxygen saturation
(SVO2), central venous pressure (CVP), and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP).
Patients who have interruption of sympathetic vasomotor input after high cervical cord injury or
major head injury may experience neurogenic shock. In neurogenic shock, there is arteriolar
dilation and venodilation. The result is a fall in all variables measured (CO, SVR, SVO2, CVP, and
PCWP) (option E). Hypovolemia is the most common cause of shock and occurs due to acute
blood loss or significant loss of plasma volume due to extravascular fluid sequestration.
Gastrointestinal or renal fluid losses may also lead to hypovolemic shock. In hypovolemic shock,
CO is low; SVR is elevated; and SVO2, CVP, and PCWP are low (option A). Cardiogenic shock
(option B) has similarly low CO, elevated SVR, and low SVO2. However, CVP and PCWP are
elevated. Septic shock can be hyperdynamic or hypodynamic. Early in the septic shock, the
hyperdynamic state predominates and is associated with increased CO, low SVR, and low SVO2.
CVP and PCWP are variable and may be low, normal, or elevated (option C). The hypodynamic
state of septic shock is associated with low CO and high SVR with variable effect of CVP, PCWP,
and SVO2. Shock following trauma is most often due to hypovolemia. However, after
intravascular volume is restored, some individuals will continue to experience hypotension due
to loss of plasma volume into the interstitium and injured tissues. This type of shock will be
associated with variable effects on CO and SVR with low SVO2, CVP, and PCWP. Finally,
hypoadrenalism is a rare cause of shock associated with unrecognized adrenal insufficiency.
Hypoadrenal shock presents with a low CO, low SVO2, low CVP, low PCWP, and normal to low
SVR.
77
  The answer is A. (Chap. 325) Sepsis and septic shock represent a harmful host response to
infection and are contributing factors to more than 200,000 deaths in the United States each
year. Over the past 30 years, the incidence of sepsis has risen along with our aging population.
Annually, there are more than 750,000 cases of sepsis yearly with an incidence of 3 per 1000
population. Most cases of sepsis occur in individuals with underlying illness. The incidence also
increases with age and increasing comorbidities. Other risk factors for sepsis include
immunocompromised state and indwelling vascular or mechanical devices. The most common
source of infection in individuals with sepsis is the lungs, accounting for 64% of cases of sepsis.
Microbial invasion of the bloodstream is not required for an individual to develop the systemic
response that leads to multiorgan dysfunction in sepsis. Blood cultures are only positive in 40%–
70% of cases of septic shock and approximately 20%–40% of cases of severe sepsis. When a
culture is positive from any site, the most common organisms are gram-negative bacteria (62%),
with P aeruginosa and Escherichia coli being the most common. Gram-positive bacteria are present
in approximately 47% of cases, and 19% occurred in people infected with fungi. Because the
numbers add up to >100%, it should be noted that multiple bacteria may be implicated in
sepsis.
78
  The answer is C. (Chap. 325 and JAMA 2016;315:801–810) Sepsis represents a dysregulated
host response to infection, and severity can range broadly from a mild inflammatory response to
refractory septic shock (Table VI-78). Multiple professional medical societies have attempted to
create a standardized definition of sepsis and septic shock over the years to aid in early
identification of sepsis with the goal of improving patient outcomes. The most recent definition
of sepsis simplifies diagnosis into two categories: sepsis and septic shock. This eliminates prior
categories included in the continuum of sepsis including systemic inflammatory response
categories included in the continuum of sepsis including systemic inflammatory response
syndrome (SIRS) and severe sepsis. SIRS criteria may be present in many individuals with
infection who do not develop progressive symptoms of sepsis. The symptoms that may indicate a
harmful systemic response to infection are many of those previously included in the SIRS
definition, including fever or hypothermia, tachypnea, tachycardia, and leukocytosis. However,
SIRS can be present due to systemic inflammatory responses with other stresses such as trauma
or acute pancreatitis that are not caused by infection. Thus, the term SIRS is neither sensitive nor
specific for identifying patients at risk of developing sepsis. Severe sepsis was also a term with
limited specificity and did not provide additional risk stratification. In the simplified definition,
there is greater reliance on use of the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score. Sepsis
is thus defined as a suspected or documented infection with an acute increase of ≥2 points,
whereas septic shock is clinically defined as sepsis with need for vasopressor support and
elevated lactate (>2 mmol/L) despite adequate fluid resuscitation. The SOFA score incorporates
a variety of measures to determine the magnitude of multiorgan dysfunction. Variables include
PaO2/FiO2 ratio, platelet count, bilirubin, Glasgow Coma Scale score, creatinine, urine output,
and blood pressure/vasopressor support. Sepsis is identified as evidence of infection with
evidence of organ dysfunction. Using the SOFA score as a determinant of organ dysfunction
creates a more standard measure for identifying sepsis. A patient may be considered in refractory
septic shock if the mean arterial pressure remains low for >1 hour despite fluid resuscitation
and vasopressors. Refractory septic shock is not included in the guidelines.
TALBLE VI-78   Definitions Used to Describe the Condition of Septic Patients
79
  The answer is B. (Chap. 325) Blood cultures are positive in only 40%–70% of cases of sepsis,
although in most individuals, a source of infection can be identified through examination of
infected material (e.g., sputum, abscess fluid, urine) or through the identification of RNA or DNA
in blood or tissue samples. In some individuals, the immediate source of infection is not
apparent. In cases of sepsis and septic shock, it is important to initiate antibiotic therapy
immediately while awaiting culture data to become available. A delay in antibiotic therapy as
little as 1 hour has been associated with lower survival rates. In addition, use of “inappropriate”
antibiotics defined on the basis of local susceptibility patterns and published guidelines for
empiric antibiotic therapy is associated with a fivefold increase in mortality. This patient has
evidence of septic shock and has had a prior splenectomy. Patients who have had splenectomy
are at risk for sepsis due to encapsulated organisms. In these individuals, sepsis is most
commonly caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, but Haemophilus influenzae and Neisseria
meningitidis may also be implicated. In an asplenic patient with sepsis, the patient should be
empirically treated with cefotaxime or ceftriaxone. In areas where there is significant resistance
of S pneumoniae to cephalosporins, vancomycin should be added. In most areas, the
cephalosporin resistance is only 1%. If a patient is allergic to cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones
should be used as an alternative medication.
80
  The answer is B. (Chap. 325) Mortality in sepsis remains high, with approximately 20%–35%
of individuals dying when severe sepsis is present and up to 60% dying due to septic shock.
Mortality increases with increasing age and number of comorbidities. Numerous interventions
have been attempted to try to decrease mortality by providing better supportive care or targeting
the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms that lead to organ failure in sepsis. An example of a
supportive measure that has been proven ineffective in sepsis is insulin therapy to achieve tight
glucose control. The rationale for lower blood glucose in sepsis was that hyperglycemia was
associated with poorer outcomes in critical illness. After initial enthusiasm from data generated
by a single-center trial in a surgical ICU, the benefits were not demonstrated in a medically ill
population. Meta-analyses have concluded that intensive insulin therapy does not affect survival
and may lead to harm, particularly from hypoglycemia. Anemia also frequently develops in
individuals with critical illness. The target hemoglobin necessary to maintain oxygen-carrying
capacity has to be balanced against potential harm from transfusion therapy, including infection
and transfusion-associated acute lung injury. A randomized trial demonstrated that patients were
not harmed by a lower hemoglobin threshold for transfusion (7 g/dL) compared to a higher
hemoglobin goal (9 g/dL). Patients with refractory hypotension in sepsis have been shown to
have a relative deficiency of cortisol in the face of profound metabolic stress. This so-called
critical illness–related corticosteroid insufficiency may lead to worse outcomes in critical illness.
Trials to determine which patients would most benefit from corticosteroid replacement used
adrenocorticotropin hormone stimulation to assess adrenal response to stimulus. However, this
approach did not lead to improved outcomes, and most practitioners favor a more empiric
approach to corticosteroid replacement. Hydrocortisone should be considered at a dose of 50 mg
every 6 hours in patients with septic shock on vasopressors. If clinical improvement occurs with
use of hydrocortisone over 24–48 hours, then a course of therapy for 5–7 days is indicated. Other
interventions that have been trialed but failed for septic shock include endotoxin-neutralizing
proteins, inhibitors of cyclooxygenase or nitric oxide synthase, anticoagulants, polyclonal
antibodies, and inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1, platelet-activating factor, and
tissue factor pathway. One of the most widely known medications used for sepsis was
recombinant activated protein C (APC). This medication was approved by the FDA for severe
sepsis and septic shock based on the outcome of a randomized controlled trial that showed a
mortality benefit in patients who were more severely ill. Subsequent trials showed no benefit in
patients with less severe illness and in children. A subsequent confirmatory trial showed no
benefit to APC, and it was removed from the market 10 years after being approved.
81
  The answer is D. (Chap. 326) The ECG shows ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, and V3-V6.
This patient is presenting in cardiogenic shock in the setting of acute anterior myocardial
infarction (MI), likely due to occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery.
infarction (MI), likely due to occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery.
Cardiogenic shock is characterized by systemic hypoperfusion due to depression of the cardiac
index and sustained arterial hypotension despite an elevated filling pressure. The incidence of
cardiogenic shock was as high as 20% in the 1960s. Over time, this has decreased to about 5%–
7% in the setting of early reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction (MI). The cause of
cardiogenic shock in acute MI is primarily due to left ventricular pump failure in approximately
80% of cases but can be associated with acute mitral regurgitation in the setting of papillary
muscle dysfunction, ventricular septal rupture, right ventricular failure in inferior MI, or free
wall rupture. Only 25% of patients who develop cardiogenic shock in the setting of acute MI will
present already in shock. Another 25% will develop it within the first 6 hours after presentation.
The other 50% of individuals who develop cardiogenic shock in acute MI will develop it after
this time point. Rapid recognition and treatment of the underlying myocardial ischemia are the
most important tools in the management of patients with acute MI and cardiogenic shock.
Supportive measures include providing adequate volume to maintain left ventricular filling
pressure and treatment of pain while avoiding medications that have negative inotropic effects.
Mechanical ventilation is commonly required to prevent hypoxemia. Augmentation of blood
pressure to maintain cardiac perfusion is often required. No vasopressor agent has been shown to
change the outcome of patients in established cardiogenic shock. Norepinephrine is a potent
vasoconstrictor and inotropic agent. In a trial comparing norepinephrine with dopamine,
norepinephrine was associated with fewer adverse events, including arrhythmias. Given the
relative safety compared to dopamine, norepinephrine is the preferred initial agent for blood
pressure support. Dopamine should be a second-line agent in this patient given the presence of
ventricular ectopy and tachycardia because dopamine is associated with the development of
tachyarrhythmias. Vasopressin is a potent vasoconstrictor and may be considered in only low
doses in the treatment of shock. Doses greater than 0.03 U/min have been associated with
coronary and mesenteric ischemia. Nitroglycerin as a continuous drip may be considered for
venodilation and management of the patient’s pain. However, it would be expected to decrease
blood pressure and should not be used in the absence of other means of circulatory support. Of
the options listed, the best choice for circulatory support in this patient is the placement of an
intra-aortic balloon pump. This temporary percutaneous device is inserted into the aorta via the
femoral artery, and the balloon is expanded during ventricular diastole to maintain coronary
artery perfusion pressure. During systole, the rapid deflation of the blood provides effective
afterload reduction to support a failing heart. Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation is rarely used for acute MI but may be considered when respiratory failure
complicates cardiogenic shock.
82
  The answer is A. (Chap. 326) The patient has evidence of decompensated ischemic
cardiomyopathy with marked volume overload, pulmonary edema, and cardiogenic shock. Initial
management of this patient includes maintenance of adequate oxygenation and circulatory
support while initiating diuresis. Figure VI-82 outlines the optimal treatment for acute
pulmonary edema. Oxygenation should be maintained, and intubation with mechanical
ventilation is frequently required. The combination of nitroglycerin and morphine provides
venodilation and decreases venous return and, in turn, decreases the work of breathing.
Morphine further provides symptomatic relief of dyspnea and anxiety. Furosemide or other loop
diuretics should be administered at the equivalent furosemide dose of 0.5–1.0 mg/kg.
Norepinephrine may be required when the systolic blood pressure is less than 100 mmHg to
maintain a mean arterial pressure of 60 mmHg. Dobutamine is a positive inotropic agent that is
often used for cardiogenic shock but may acutely cause a decline in blood pressure. It should be
considered when the systolic blood pressure is 70–100 mmHg without signs and symptoms of
shock.
FIGURE VI-82 ACE, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors; BP, blood pressure; IV, intravenous; SBP,
systolic blood pressure; SL, sublingual. Modified from Guidelines 2000 for Cardiopulmonary
Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care. Part 7: The era of reperfusion: Section 1: Acute
coronary syndromes [acute myocardial infarction]. The American Heart Association in collaboration with
the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation. Circulation 102:I172, 2000.
83
  The answer is C. (Chap. 326) Table VI-83 outlines the hemodynamic patterns that can be seen
in various forms of shock, including shock caused by a variety of complications of acute MI. This
patient presents with acute hypotension following a coronary revascularization procedure for
acute anterior MI. Acute severe mitral regurgitation can occur following acute MI due to
papillary muscle dysfunction and rupture, resulting in cardiogenic shock and/or pulmonary
edema. This complication most often occurs within the first day after an MI, although there is a
second peak of occurrence several days after MI. Other complications that can occur after MI
resulting in rapid development of hypotension and cardiogenic shock include ventricular septal
rupture, cardiac tamponade, and free wall rupture. It is important to understand the
hemodynamics of these complications as well as other causes of shock, although clinically,
pulmonary artery catheters are used less frequently these days because their use has not been
pulmonary artery catheters are used less frequently these days because their use has not been
associated with improvements in care. Normal values (option B) are shown in the top most
portion of the table and are important for general knowledge regarding the circulatory system. A
patient with acute mitral regurgitation (option C) would have normal to elevated right atrial
pressure and elevations in the right ventricular systolic pressure and pulmonary artery pressures,
although right ventricular diastolic pressure may be normal or elevated. The most characteristic
finding is an elevation in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) with a prominent v
wave. The large v wave represents the pressure generated during systole across the regurgitant
mitral valve. Cardiac index would be low normal to low, with normal to elevated systemic
vascular resistance. Individuals with cardiac tamponade demonstrate equalization of pressures
across the vascular system with a low cardiac index (option E). This is manifest as right atrial
pressure, right ventricular diastolic pressure, pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, and PCWP all
manifesting similar values. Free wall rupture causes cardiac tamponade and has a dramatic
presentation, often leading to death. It can present more subacutely if the pericardium is able to
temporarily seal the rupture site. Ventricular septal rupture presents similarly to acute mitral
regurgitation. However, the hemodynamics are different as the right atrial pressure and right
ventricular diastolic pressure are typically higher, whereas PCWP may not be as elevated.
Cardiogenic shock with right ventricular failure that can occur following inferior MI or
pulmonary embolus will demonstrate a low cardiac index and elevated right atrial and right
ventricular diastolic pressures with a wedge pressure that may be low, normal, or elevated
(option D). The patient presenting with elevated cardiac output and low right atrial and
ventricular pressures as well as low PCWP is most typical of a patient with septic shock.
TALBLE VI-83   Hemodynamic Patternsa
84
  The answer is B. (Chap. 327) Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is responsible for between 200,000
and 450,000 deaths yearly in the United States. SCD is defined as natural death due to cardiac
and 450,000 deaths yearly in the United States. SCD is defined as natural death due to cardiac
causes with presentation within 1 hour or less from a change heralding the onset of the terminal
clinical event and the onset of cardiac arrest. In an individual who experiences an unwitnessed
death, pathologists may expand the definition to up to 24 hours after the individual was last seen
to be alive and stable. If an individual is successfully resuscitated from SCD, he or she would still
be classified as SCD if death occurs during the initial hospitalization or within 30 days of the
resuscitated cardiac event. In two-thirds of individuals, SCD is the first clinical expression of
underlying cardiac disease, and up to half of all cardiac deaths are sudden and unexpected. SCD
can occur due to primary arrhythmia, arrhythmia induced following an acute cardiac event, a
structural abnormality following a prior cardiac event, or acute low-output states that may occur
due to acute pulmonary embolism, ruptured aortic aneurysm, anaphylaxis, and cardiac
tamponade, among other causes. There is a peak in sudden, unexpected deaths between birth
and 6 months of age (sudden infant death syndrome), with a second peak that occurs between
the ages of 45 and 75 years with an incidence of 1–2 per 1000 per year. Individuals of African
American descent have a higher incidence of SCD compared to the white population. Young and
middle-aged men have a higher risk of SCD compared to women, but with advancing age, the
gender differences in SCD disappear. Genetic factors also play a role in the risk for SCD because
having a parental history of SCD as an initial presentation of cardiac disease increases the
likelihood of a similar event in offspring. Other risk factors include those of cardiac disease,
including smoking, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. In the past, ventricular
fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia were the most common arrhythmias seen in patients
experiencing SCD. However, asystole currently accounts for about 50% of all cases of SCD.
Prognosis and outcome depend on the underlying etiology of the event. Ventricular tachycardia
and ventricular fibrillation have significantly better outcomes when compared to individuals
who present with asystole or pulseless electrical activity.
85
  The answer is D. (Chap. 328) Coma is a surprisingly common medical condition that is
responsible for a large number of admissions to emergency and critical care units. Coma refers to
a deep sleeplike state from which a patient cannot be aroused. It occurs on a continuum of
disorders of decreased alertness that includes stupor, in which a patient can be transiently
aroused with vigorous stimulation and with generally purposeful response to painful stimuli.
Drowsiness is a light state of decreased alertness that is similar to light sleep. A patient can be
aroused easily, and alertness typically persists for a period after arousal. There are multiple
etiologies of coma and several disorders that can cause unresponsiveness that can be confused
with coma. Some of the common causes of coma include drug intoxications, metabolic
derangements, severe systemic infections, shock, seizures, hypertensive encephalopathy,
concussion, meningitis, encephalitis, intracranial hemorrhage, and intracranial mass lesions,
among others. One condition that is often confused with coma is the persistent vegetative state.
A vegetative state refers to someone who has emerged from coma with an awake appearance but
is unresponsive. There are few, if any, meaningful responses to stimuli from the environment.
Persistent vegetative state occurs following significant damage to both cerebral hemispheres with
preservation of brainstem function. It occurs most commonly following cardiac arrest or
traumatic brain injury. A minimally conscious state is similar to the persistent vegetative state
but less severe. The patient appears awake, can make rudimentary vocalizations, and may have
some purposeful motor behaviors, occasionally in response to commands. Other syndromes that
can mimic coma include akinetic mutism, catatonia, and locked-in state. Akinetic mutism occurs
due to extreme hydrocephalus or damage to the medial thalamic nuclei or frontal lobes. In
akinetic mutism, the patient appears awake and is able to think and form memories but is unable
to move or speak. Upon recovery, the patient can recount events from the period of the mutism.
Catatonia usually occurs in individuals with severe psychiatric illness. Patients make few
voluntary or responsive movements, although they do not appear distressed. On careful
examination, it usually becomes apparent the patient is responsive. Eyes will move with head
rotation, and the patient will blink with a visual threat. Other subtle signs may be present as
well. Locked-in syndrome occurs following an injury to the ventral pons. In this setting, the
patient has normal cerebral function but has no means to produce speech or movement. The only
movements a patient will have are voluntary vertical movement of the eyes and lid elevation.
86
  The answer is B. (Chap. 328) Figure VI-86 shows a large left-sided subdural hematoma with
compression of the upper midbrain and lower thalamic regions. The regions are displaced away
from the mass, and there is transtentorial uncal herniation of the medial temporal lobe. Cerebral
herniation occurs when brain is displaced by an adjacent mass into a contiguous compartment
that it does not occupy. There are several types of brain herniation: uncal, central, transfalcical,
and foraminal. The most common type is uncal herniation, which occurs when brain is displaced
across the tentorium from the supratentorial to infratentorial compartment. The uncus (anterior
medial temporal gyrus) moves into the tentorial opening just anterior and adjacent to the
midbrain. This causes compression of the ipsilateral third nerve with subsequent enlargement of
the ipsilateral pupil. Coma is caused by compression of the midbrain against the opposite
tentorial edge. Lateral displacement of the midbrain may also cause compression of the opposite
cerebral peduncle causing a contralateral hemiparesis and Babinski sign. Central transtentorial
herniation causes a symmetric displacement of the thalamic structures through the tentorial
opening, compressing the midbrain. Miotic pupils and decreased alertness occur as opposed to
enlargement of a single pupil with uncal herniation. As both central and uncal herniation
progress, there is a similar progression of clinical signs with progressive dysfunction of the
midbrain, pons, and finally, the medulla. Transfalcical herniation occurs when cingulate gyrus is
displaced under the falx and across the midline. Foraminal herniation occurs when the cerebellar
tonsils are forced into the foramen magnum and results in rapid death due to compression of the
respiratory center.
87
  The answer is C. (Chap. 328) The coma in this patient is caused by drug intoxication, most
likely tricyclic antidepressant overdose. Coma is commonly caused by drug intoxications and
compounded by the resulting metabolic derangements. Because the patient is unresponsive, it is
not possible to obtain a medical history, but family members and friends should be queried to
assist with determining a possible cause. This patient has had recent depression, which could
potentially indicate use of antidepressant medications and also increased suicide risk. Tricyclic
antidepressants exert an anticholinergic effect. Common symptoms include an alerted level of
consciousness, cardiac conduction abnormalities, arrhythmias, and evidence of anticholinergic
activity including elevated temperature, flushing, and dilated pupils. If cardiac conduction delays
are present, sodium bicarbonate should be given. Other supportive care includes use of
intravenous fluids and management of agitation.
88
  The answer is E. (Chap. 328) Brain death refers to the irreversible loss of all cerebral and
brainstem function. Cardiac activity is preserved, and respiration is maintained only by artificial
means. In Western society, brain death is considered equivalent to death, and the respirator can
be disconnected to allow cardiac death to occur. Careful examination of a patient needs to be
performed to assess when brain death has occurred. At the time of examination, the patient
needs to be normothermic and have been without treatment with sedative medications for at
least 6–24 hours. Patients should also be maintaining a systolic blood pressure >100 mmHg and
be euvolemic. Ideal criteria are simple, can be assessed at the bedside, and should have no
chance of diagnostic error. Three essential elements of brain death include:
1. Widespread cortical destruction identified by coma and unresponsiveness to all stimuli.
2. Global brainstem damage evidenced by absent pupillary light reflexes and loss of
oculovestibular and corneal reflexes
3. Loss of medullary function with complete and irreversible apnea
The pupils are usually mid-sized, but can be enlarged. However, they should not be miotic. Deep
tendon reflexes may be present, and Babinski response is usually absent or flexor. The apnea test
is performed by preoxygenating a patient with 100% FiO2 for up to 10 minutes, with oxygen
delivered via transtracheal cannula throughout the test. The patient remains off the ventilator for
8–10 minutes, and signs of respiration are observed. At the end of the test, an arterial blood gas is
performed to demonstrate that PaCO2 has risen to 50–60 mmHg. Apnea is confirmed if there is
no evidence of respiration when the PaCO2 has risen to a level that should have stimulated
respiration. The apnea test should be terminated if the patient develops cardiovascular instability.
respiration. The apnea test should be terminated if the patient develops cardiovascular instability.
Other ancillary tests are sometimes performed in patients who cannot undergo clinical testing of
brain death. Examples of scenarios in which ancillary tests may be useful include patients who
are hemodynamically unstable, patients with diseases causing baseline carbon dioxide retention,
and in the presence of prior sedation or neuromuscular blocking agents. The purpose of ancillary
testing is to demonstrate lack of cerebral blood flow, and ancillary testing can include
radionuclide brain imaging, cerebral angiography, and/or transcranial Doppler measurements.
89
  The answer is B. (Chap. 330) Monitoring intracranial pressure (ICP) is an important tool in the
care of selected critically ill patients due to neurologic injury or disease. ICP can be monitored
by ventriculostomy, intraparenchymal transducer, epidural catheter, or subarachnoid catheters.
Epidural or subarachnoid catheters are less reliable and are less frequently used.
Ventriculostomy is considered the “gold standard” for ICP monitoring because it offers the
advantage of providing a means of cerebrospinal fluid drainage in the event of elevated ICP. In
addition, ventriculostomy monitoring also provides greater accuracy because it has the ability to
be recalibrated, whereas the intraparenchymal monitor does not. Patients who are most likely to
be considered for ICP monitoring are those with severe primary neurologic disorders, including
severe traumatic brain injury (Glasgow Coma Scale ≤8), large tissue shifts from supratentorial
ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, intraventricular hemorrhage, or posterior fossa stroke.
Individuals with fulminant hepatic failure are also at risk for severe cerebral edema leading to
herniation. ICP monitoring is recommended for these individuals, although intraparenchymal
monitoring is often more appropriate than ventriculostomy due to the presence of coagulopathy.
These patients are at particularly high risk of bleeding. In addition, individuals with diffuse
cerebral edema, such as in fulminant hepatic failure, typically have small ventricles leading to
difficulty in placement.
90
  The answer is D. (Chap. 330) The primary goal of ICP monitoring in patients with severe
neurologic injury and elevated ICP is to maintain adequate cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP).
CPP is calculated as mean arterial pressure minus the ICP, and the goal CPP is ≥60 mmHg.
Normal ICP is <20 mmHg. Thus, this patient is showing evidence of marked elevations in ICP
with a CPP of 58 mmHg. When ICP remains elevated for more than 5 minutes, therapy should be
undertaken to decrease the ICP. It is important to consider the underlying cause of ICP in an
individual when determining treatment plan. In patients with hydrocephalus or subarachnoid
hemorrhage, draining cerebrospinal fluid via the ventriculostomy will decrease the ICP. In
patients with more diffuse cerebral edema from head trauma or stroke, medical approaches are
more appropriate. This patient has hydrocephalus due to subarachnoid bleeding. Therefore, the
first line of treatment should be to drain the ventriculostomy. If this fails to adequately alleviate
the elevations in ICP, other treatment modalities including osmolar therapy, sedation,
hyperventilation, or vasopressors to increase mean arterial pressure can be considered. There are
two osmolar therapies that are frequently used: mannitol or 23.4% saline bolus. Deep sedation
may be required, and a variety of agents may be used. Neuromuscular blockade may be used as
well. Hyperventilation to drop the PaCO2 to 30–35 mmHg works acutely to drop the ICP, but the
effect is limited. Vasopressors can be considered to increase the mean arterial pressure and thus
ensure an improved CPP. Glucocorticoids are best used in individuals with vasogenic edema
from tumor or abscess. In those with refractory elevations in ICP, decompressive craniectomy,
high-dose barbiturate therapy, or hypothermia may also be employed.
91
  The answer is C. (Chap. 330) Therapeutic hypothermia refers to the purposeful induction of
hypothermia to temperatures of 32–34°C, and it is primarily used following cardiac arrest. The
rationale for use of therapeutic hypothermia is to provide a neuroprotective effect to limit
neuronal cell injury and death following a substantial hypoxic insult. Initially, two trials
suggested that use of therapeutic hypothermia would improve functional outcomes in patients
who remained comatose after resuscitation from cardiac arrest. Subsequent trials showed no
significant difference in neurologic outcomes if the temperature was maintained at 32°C or 36°C
so long as development of fever was prevented. Treatment guidelines currently support
therapeutic hypothermia for 12–24 hours when the initial rhythm was ventricular fibrillation.
therapeutic hypothermia for 12–24 hours when the initial rhythm was ventricular fibrillation.
While cerebral edema is a common complication of cardiac arrest and a leading cause of death,
there is no recommendation to perform head imaging prior to initiating therapeutic
hypothermia. Complications of therapeutic hypothermia include coagulopathy and increased risk
of infection.
92
  The answer is B. (Chap. 330) Critical illness polyneuropathy is the most common peripheral
nervous system complication of critical illness. Prior studies have shown that as many as 70% of
individuals hospitalized in intensive care units with sepsis develop critical illness
polyneuropathy. The clinical presentation of critical illness polyneuropathy is diffuse weakness
with decreased deep tendon reflexes and distal sensory loss. On electrophysiologic testing, a
diffuse, symmetric distal axonal sensorimotor neuropathy is seen. The cause of critical illness
polyneuropathy is not known but is postulated to be due to circulating inflammatory cytokines
that are commonly elevated is sepsis and other critical illness. Risk factors for development of
the syndrome include sepsis, prolonged critical illness, and multiorgan system failure. In severe
cases, critical illness polyneuropathy can lead to decreased respiratory muscle strength and can
contribute to prolonged ventilator dependence. Treatment is supportive, and recovery is
spontaneous, although it may take weeks to months for full recovery.
Critical illness myopathy is a term used to describe several discrete muscular disorders in
critically ill individuals. It is less common than critical illness polyneuropathy and may have
elevated levels of serum creatine kinase. As disease progresses, electromyography can show
abnormal spontaneous activity. Muscle biopsy is variable, with results ranging from type II
atrophy to panfascicular necrosis. This patient does not show evidence of fibroproliferative
progression of acute respiratory distress syndrome as the chest radiograph shows clearing of
infiltrates. The patient also requires minimal ventilatory support with good tidal volumes.
Guillain-Barré syndrome is an acute demyelinating polyneuropathy that presents as a cause of
respiratory failure and is not present in this case. ICU delirium is a common complication of ICU
care but should not result in low tidal volumes when ventilatory support is decreased.
VI-93 and VI-94.    The answers are E and E, respectively. (Chap. 330) Nontraumatic subarachnoid
hemorrhage (SAH) occurs most commonly following rupture of a saccular, or berry, aneurysm.
Autopsy and angiography studies have identified aneurysms in 2% of the adult population,
affecting 4 million individuals. The yearly incidence of SAH due to aneurysmal rupture is
20,000–30,000 cases. Many patients die before reaching the hospital. If a patient survives to
hospital admission, the 28-day mortality rate is 45%. More than half of individuals who survive
have significant neurologic injury with lingering manifestations. The patient with SAH should be
admitted to a critical care unit with expertise in managing SAH. Initial treatment of SAH
includes early aneurysmal repair while managing intracranial hypertension. Repair of the
aneurysm may be accomplished via neurosurgical clipping or endovascular coiling of the
aneurysm. Generally coiling has shown improved functional outcomes in those undergoing
endovascular procedures. Medical management is complex. Intracranial hypertension is common
and frequently requires management with ventriculostomy. Medical management of elevated
intracranial pressures is also often required. If a patient survives the initial period following
SAH, the patient is vulnerable to several causes of delayed neurologic deficits that typically
present within 1–2 weeks after the event. Vasospasm refers to the narrowing of the arteries at
the base of the brain following SAH and is the most common cause of delayed morbidity and
mortality in SAH. Signs of ischemic injury and change in neurologic exam herald the
development of vasospasm. Nimodipine is typically prescribed at a dose of 60 mg every 4 hours
upon admission to the ICU to attempt to prevent vasospasm. Vasospasm can be detected by x-ray
angiography or transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Surveillance for vasospasm is often performed
via transcranial Doppler ultrasound on a daily or every-other-day basis. In addition to
nimodipine, management of acute vasospasm includes raising cerebral perfusion pressure and
volume expansion. Phenylephrine and norepinephrine are the most frequently used vasopressors.
If vasospasm is refractory to these treatments, intra-arterial vasodilators and/or percutaneous
transluminal angioplasty should be considered. Other causes of delayed neurologic deficits
following SAH include rerupture of the aneurysm, hydrocephalus, and hyponatremia. The
following SAH include rerupture of the aneurysm, hydrocephalus, and hyponatremia. The
incidence of rerupture of an aneurysm is ~30% in the first month after presentation, with a peak
incidence within the first 7 days. Mortality associated with rerupture is 60%. Early endovascular
coiling or surgical clipping of the aneurysm decreases the incidence of rerupture. Hydrocephalus
can occur acutely or subacutely after SAH. Subacute development of hydrocephalus is more
common and presents over a few days or weeks with progressive drowsiness, incontinence, and
slowed mentation. The patient in this scenario had a CT scan that did not show increasing blood,
cerebral edema, or development of hydrocephalus. Hyponatremia occurs following SAH due to
natriuresis and volume depletion. Electrolytes are typically assessed at least twice daily following
SAH as hyponatremia can develop fairly acutely.
VI-95 and VI-96.    The answers are E and C, respectively. (Chap. 331) This clinical scenario
describes an individual with superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome, which is an oncologic
emergency. Eighty-five percent of cases of SVC syndrome are caused by either small-cell or
squamous cell cancer of the lung. Other causes of SVC syndrome include lymphoma, aortic
aneurysm, thyromegaly, fibrosing mediastinitis, thrombosis, histoplasmosis, and Behcet
syndrome. The typical clinical presentation is dyspnea, cough, and facial and neck swelling.
Symptoms are worsened by lying flat or bending forward. As the swelling progresses, it can lead
to glossal and laryngeal edema with symptoms of hoarseness and dysphagia. Other symptoms
can include headaches, nasal congestion, pain, dizziness, and syncope. In rare cases, seizures can
occur from cerebral edema, although this is more commonly associated with brain metastases.
On physical examination, dilated neck veins with collateralization on the anterior chest wall are
frequently seen. There is also facial and upper extremity edema associated with cyanosis. The
diagnosis of SVC syndrome is a clinical diagnosis. A pleural effusion is seen in about 25% of
cases, more commonly on the right. A chest CT would demonstrate decreased or absent contrast
in the central veins with prominent collateral circulation and would help elucidate the cause.
Most commonly, this would be mediastinal adenopathy or a large central tumor obstructing
venous flow. The immediate treatment of SVC syndrome includes oxygen, elevation of the head
of the bed, and administration of diuretics in combination with a low-sodium diet. Conservative
treatment alone often provides adequate relief of symptoms and allows determination of the
underlying cause of the obstruction. In this case, this would include histologic confirmation of
cell type of the tumor to provide more definitive therapy. Radiation therapy is the most common
treatment modality and can be used in an emergent situation if conservative treatment fails to
provide relief to the patient.
97
  The answer is A. (Chap. 331) This patient presents with symptoms of spinal cord compression
in the setting of known stage IV breast cancer. This represents an oncologic emergency as only
10% of patients presenting with paraplegia regain the ability to walk. Most commonly, patients
develop symptoms of localized back pain and tenderness days to months before developing
paraplegia. The pain is worsened by movement, cough, or sneezing. In contrast to radicular pain,
the pain related to spinal cord metastases is worse with lying down. Patients presenting with
back pain alone should have a careful examination to attempt to localize the lesion prior to
development of more severe neurologic symptoms. In this patient with paraplegia, there is a
definitive level at which sensation is diminished. This level is typically one to two vertebrae
below the site of compression. Other findings include spasticity, weakness, and increased deep
tendon reflexes. In those with autonomic dysfunction, bowel and bladder incontinence will occur
with decreased anal tone, absence of the anal wink and bulbocavernosus reflexes, and bladder
distention. The most important initial step is the administration of high-dose intravenous
corticosteroids to minimize associated swelling around the lesion and prevent paraplegia while
allowing further evaluation and treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should be
performed of the entire spinal cord to evaluate for other metastatic disease that may require
therapy. Although a brain MRI may be indicated in the future to evaluate for brain metastases, it
is not required in the initial evaluation because the bilateral nature of the patient’s symptoms
and sensory level clearly indicate the spinal cord as the site of the injury. Once an MRI is
performed, a definitive treatment plan can be made. Most commonly, radiation therapy is used
with or without surgical decompression.
VI-98 and VI-99.    The answers are B and E, respectively. (Chap. 331) Tumor lysis syndrome occurs
most commonly in individuals undergoing chemotherapy for rapidly proliferating malignancies,
including acute leukemias and Burkitt lymphoma. In rare instances, it can be seen in chronic
lymphoma or solid tumors. As the chemotherapeutic agents act on these cells, there is massive
tumor lysis that results in release of intracellular ions and nucleic acids. This leads to a
characteristic metabolic syndrome of hyperuricemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperkalemia, and
hypocalcemia. Acute kidney injury is frequent and can lead to renal failure requiring
hemodialysis if uric acid crystallizes within the renal tubules. Lactic acidosis and dehydration
increase the risk of acute kidney injury. Hyperphosphatemia occurs due to the release of
intracellular phosphate ions and causes a reciprocal reduction in serum calcium. This
hypocalcemia can be profound, leading to neuromuscular irritability and tetany. Hyperkalemia
can become rapidly life-threatening and cause ventricular arrhythmia. Knowing the
characteristics of tumor lysis syndrome, one can attempt to prevent the known complications
from occurring. It is important to monitor serum electrolytes frequently during treatment.
Laboratory studies should be obtained no less than three times daily, but more frequent
monitoring is often needed. Allopurinol should be administered prophylactically at high doses. If
allopurinol fails to control uric acid to less than 8 mg/dL, rasburicase, a recombinant urate
oxidase, can be added at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg. Throughout this period, the patient should be well
hydrated with alkalinization of the urine to a pH of greater than 7.0. This is accomplished by
administration of intravenous normal or half-normal saline at a dose of 3000 mL/m2 daily with
sodium bicarbonate. Prophylactic hemodialysis is not performed unless there is underlying renal
failure prior to starting chemotherapy.

