1
All of the following are typically characterized as an obstructive lung disease EXCEPT:
A.   Asbestosis
B.   Asthma
C.   Bronchiectasis
D.   Chronic bronchitis
E.   Emphysema
2
A 25-year-old man is brought to the emergency department by ambulance after his family found
him unresponsive at home. He has a history of intravenous drug abuse and human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) with medical noncompliance. His last CD4 count was <200/μL. On initial evaluation, his
blood pressure is 120/75 mmHg, heart rate is 105 bpm, respiratory rate 8 breaths/min, oxygen
saturation (SaO2) of 83%, and temperature of 36.0°C. A blood gas on room air reveals pH of 7.16,
partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2) of 70 mmHg, and partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) of 55
mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A.   Asthma
B.   Narcotic overdose
C.   Pneumococcal pneumonia
D.   Pneumocystis pneumonia
E.   Pulmonary embolism
3
At what lung volume does the outward recoil of the chest wall equal the inward elastic recoil of
the lung?
A.   Expiratory reserve volume
B.   Functional residual capacity
C.   Residual volume
D.   Tidal volume
E.   Total lung capacity
4
A 65-year-old man is evaluated for progressive dyspnea on exertion that has occurred over the
course of the past 3 months. His medical history is significant for an episode of necrotizing
pancreatitis that resulted in multiorgan failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. He required
mechanical ventilation for 6 weeks prior to his recovery. He also has a history of 30 pack-years of
tobacco, quitting 15 years previously. He is not known to have chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. On physical examination, a low-pitched inspiratory and expiratory wheeze is heard, loudest
over the mid-chest area. On pulmonary function testing, the forced expiratory volume in 1 second
(FEV1) is 2.5 L (78% predicted), forced vital capacity (FVC) is 4.00 L (94% predicted), and FEV1/FVC
ratio is 62.5%. The flow-volume curve is shown in Figure VI-4A. What is the most likely cause of the
patient’s symptoms?
FIGURE VI-4A RV, residual volume; TLC, total lung capacity.
A.   Aspirated foreign body
B.   Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
C.   Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
D.   Subglottic stenosis
E.   Unilateral vocal cord paralysis
5
A 22-year-old woman presents to the emergency department in her 23rd week of pregnancy
complaining of acute dyspnea. She has had an uncomplicated pregnancy and has no other medical
problems. She is taking no medications other than prenatal vitamins. On examination, she appears
dyspneic. Her vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 128/78 mmHg, heart rate 126 bpm,
respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation 96% on room air. She is afebrile. Her lung
and cardiac examinations are normal. There is trace bilateral pitting pedal edema. A chest x-ray
performed with abdominal shielding is normal, and the electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrates sinus
tachycardia. An arterial blood gas is performed. The pH is 7.52, partial pressure of arterial carbon
dioxide (PaCO2) is 26 mmHg, and partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) is 85 mmHg. What is the
next best step in the diagnosis and management of this patient?
A.   Initiate therapy with amoxicillin for acute bronchitis.
B.   Perform a computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiogram .
C.   Perform an echocardiogram.
D.   Reassure the patient that dyspnea is normal during this stage of pregnancy and no abnormalities
are seen on testing.
E.   Treat with clonazepam for a panic attack.
10
A 78-year-old woman is admitted to the medical intensive care unit (ICU) with multilobar
pneumonia. On initial presentation to the emergency department, her initial oxygen saturation was
60% on room air and only increased to 82% on a non-rebreather face mask. She was in marked
respiratory distress and intubated in the emergency department. Upon admission to the ICU, she was
sedated and paralyzed. The ventilator is set in the assist-control mode with a respiratory rate of 24
breaths/min, tidal volume of 6 mL/kg, FiO2 of 1.0, and positive end-expiratory pressure of 12
cmH2O. An arterial blood gas measurement is performed on these settings; the results are pH of 7.20,
PCO2 of 32 mmHg, and PO2 of 54 mmHg. What is the cause of the hypoxemia?
A.   Hypoventilation alone
B.   Hypoventilation and ventilation-perfusion mismatch
C.   Shunt
D.   Ventilation-perfusion mismatch
11
Mrs. Wittstine, a 72-year-old woman, has been complaining of low-grade fever and dyspnea for 2
weeks. She has a 10-year history of scleroderma with involvement of the digits and esophagus. She
has a 30-pack-year history of cigarette smoking but quit 8 years ago. On chest radiograph, she has a
nodular infiltrate in the right lower lobe. Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT shows the right
lower lobe lesion to be 3 cm in diameter with nodular infiltrate characteristics and enhanced
fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake. Which of the following statements about Mrs. Wittstine is most
accurate?
A.   Additional diagnostic studies are indicated.
B.   The findings on PET/CT make infection very likely.
C.   The findings on PET/CT make infection very unlikely.
D.   The findings on PET/CT make malignancy very likely.
E.   The findings on PET/CT make malignancy very unlikely.
12
A 65-year-old man is evaluated for progressive dyspnea on exertion and dry cough that have
worsened over the course of 6 months. He has not had dyspnea at rest and denies wheezing. He has
not experienced chest pain. He has a history of coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation and
previously underwent a coronary artery bypass surgery 12 years previously. His medications include
metoprolol, aspirin, warfarin, and enalapril. He previously smoked 1 pack of cigarettes daily for 40
years, quitting 5 years previously. His vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 122/68 mmHg, heart
rate 68 bpm, respiratory rate 18 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation 92% on room air. His chest
examination demonstrates bibasilar crackles present about one-third of the way up bilaterally. No
wheezing is heard. He has an irregularly irregular rhythm with a II/VI holosystolic murmur at the
apex. The jugular venous pressure is not elevated. No edema is present, but clubbing is noted.
Pulmonary function testing reveals an FEV1 of 65% predicted, FVC of 67% predicted, FEV1/FVC ratio
of 74%, TLC of 68% predicted, and diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) of 62% predicted.
Which test is most likely to determine the etiology of the patient’s dyspnea?
A.   Bronchoscopy with transbronchial lung biopsy
B.   CT pulmonary angiography
C.   Echocardiography
D.   High-resolution CT scan of the chest
E.   Nuclear medicine stress test
13
Which of the following is the major risk factor for asthma?
A.   Air pollution
B.   Atopy
C.   Diet
D.   Maternal cigarette smoking
E.   Upper respiratory viral infections
14
A 24-year-old woman is seen for a complaint of shortness of breath and wheezing. She notes the
symptoms to be worse when she has exercised outdoors and is around cats. She has had allergic
rhinitis in the spring and summer for many years and suffered from eczema as a child. On physical
examination, she is noted to have expiratory wheezing. Her pulmonary function tests demonstrate an
FEV1 of 2.67 (79% predicted), FVC of 3.81 L (97% predicted), and an FEV1/FVC ratio of 70% (86%
predicted). After administration of albuterol, the FEV1 increases to 3.0 L (12.4%). Which of the
following statements regarding the patient’s disease process is true?
A.   Confirmation of the diagnosis will require methacholine challenge testing.
B.   Mortality due to the disease has been increasing over the past decade.
C.   The most common risk factor in individuals with the disorder is genetic predisposition.
D.   The prevalence of the disorder has not changed in the past several decades.
E.   The severity of the disease does not vary significantly within a given patient with the disease.
15
A 38-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department for status asthmaticus. She rapidly
deteriorates and dies of her disease. All of the following pathologic findings would likely be seen in
this individual EXCEPT:
A.   Infiltration of the airway mucosa with eosinophils and activated T lymphocytes
B.   Infiltration of the alveolar spaces with eosinophils and neutrophils
C.   Occlusion of the airway lumen by mucous plugs
D.   Thickening and edema of the airway wall
E.   Thickening of the basement membrane of the airways with subepithelial collagen deposition
16
Which of the following patients is appropriately diagnosed with asthma?
A.   A 24-year-old woman treated with inhaled corticosteroids for cough and wheezing that has
persisted for 6 weeks following a viral upper respiratory infection
B.   A 26-year-old man who coughs and occasionally wheezes following exercise in cold weather
C.   A 34-year-old woman evaluated for chronic cough with an FEV1/FVC ratio of 68% with an FEV1
that increases from 1.68 L (52% predicted) to 1.98 L (61% predicted) after albuterol (18% change
in FEV1)
D.   A 44-year-old man who works as a technician caring for the mice in a medical research
laboratory and complains of wheezing, shortness of breath, and cough that are most severe at the
end of the week
E.   A 60-year-old man who has smoked two packs of cigarettes per day for 40 years who has dyspnea
and cough and who has airway hyperreactivity in response to methacholine
17
A 24-year-old woman was diagnosed with asthma 4 months ago and was treated with inhaled
albuterol as needed. Since her last visit, she feels generally well and typically requires using her
inhaler approximately four to seven times a week when around pollen or cats or when exercising in
cold air. The inhaled albuterol generally helps, and she only requires a repeat round of inhalations
approximately two times a week. She is on no other medications and is a nonsmoker, and her only
pet is a goldfish named Puffer. Based on this information, you advise which of the following?
A.   Add inhaled beclomethasone
B.   Add inhaled salmeterol twice a day
C.   Add inhaled tiotropium
D.   Continue present therapy
E.   Think of a new name for the goldfish
18
A 28-year-old woman with longstanding mild persistent asthma comes to see you because she just
found out that she is pregnant. Her only medications are inhaled beclomethasone twice a day and
albuterol as needed. She typically uses her albuterol less than twice per week. She wants to know
what to expect regarding her asthma severity and whether any medication changes should be made
at this time. Which of the following statements is correct?
A.   She should continue her current therapy and follow symptoms.
B.   She should switch from inhaled albuterol as needed to inhaled tiotropium as needed.
C.   She should switch from inhaled beclomethasone to a inhaled salmeterol.
D.   There is a greater than 70% chance that her asthma symptoms will become less severe during
pregnancy.
E.   There is a greater than 70% chance that her asthma symptoms will become more severe during
pregnancy.
19
A 38-year-old woman is admitted to the medical ICU with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure.
She was well and healthy until 4 days prior when she abruptly began to feel ill with fevers, chills,
bilateral pleuritic chest pain, and worsening shortness of breath. She has no significant past medical
history but has suffered the recent death of her father following a car accident. In coping with his
loss, she began smoking cigarettes again after a 15-year period of abstinence. She has been smoking
up to two packs of tobacco daily. After she began to feel ill, she started taking acetaminophen and
pseudoephedrine, but otherwise takes no medications. Upon arrival in the emergency department,
her oxygen saturation was 78% on room air. On a non-rebreather mask, the oxygen saturation
increased to 92%. The vital signs are as follows: temperature 38.7°C (101.7°), heart rate 122 bpm,
respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and blood pressure 132/82 mmHg. She appears in moderate
respiratory distress. There are bilateral diffuse crackles. The cardiovascular examination shows a
regular tachycardia without murmur. The jugular venous pressure is not elevated, and no edema is
present. The abdomen is soft and not tender. No hepatosplenomegaly is present. Extremity and
neurology examinations are normal. Chest radiograph shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates. Her
echocardiogram shows normal left heart systolic and diastolic function. She is treated with
ceftriaxone 1 g intravenously (IV) daily and azithromycin 500 mg IV daily. Over the course of the
first 24 hours, the patient’s clinical condition continues to deteriorate. She remains febrile, and she
requires intubation and mechanical ventilation. The patient’s ventilator is set on assist control with a
rate of 28/min, tidal volume of 330 mL, fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.8, and positive end-
expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 12 cmH2O. On these settings, her arterial blood gas values are pH 7.28,
PaCO2 68 mmHg, and PaO2 62 mmHg. A bronchoalveolar lavage is performed. The cell count shows
58% neutrophils, 12% lymphocytes, and 30% eosinophils. What is the best approach to the treatment
of the patient at this time?
A.   Consult thoracic surgery for surgical lung biopsy.
B.   Continue current IV antibiotic regimen while awaiting culture data.
C.   Initiate methylprednisolone 60 mg IV every 6 hours.
D.   Initiate oseltamivir 75 mg twice a day.
E.   Initiate therapy with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole IV with prednisone 40 mg twice a day.
20
A 34-year-old man is referred to clinic for evaluation of severe persistent asthma. He was
diagnosed with asthma in his teenage years. At that time, he primarily noticed symptoms when he
was running cross country track outdoors. He generally has been an active individual, but in the past
10 years, his asthma has become increasingly hard to control. He has been hospitalized three times
for asthma exacerbations in the past 3 years. He has had to stop running and has gained 60 lb due to
being on chronic oral prednisone. His current medical regimen is fluticasone/salmeterol 500/50 μg
twice a day, tiotropium 18 μg daily, montelukast 10 mg daily, esomeprazole 40 mg daily, fluticasone
nasal spray daily, and prednisone 10 mg daily. He uses his rescue albuterol nebulizer or metered-dose
inhaler (MDI) about four times daily and awakens at night at least three times weekly. He has a
chronic cough that brings up brownish mucous plugs. On examination, he has enlarged nasal
turbinates but no polyps. Diffuse bilateral wheezing is heard. No crackles are present. His chest x-ray
shows hyperinflation with an area of upper lung zone infiltrate in the right upper lobe. Three months
ago, he had an area of atelectasis with mucous plugging in the left lower lobe. His peripheral
eosinophil count is 750/μL. Which of the following tests is indicated next in the evaluation and
treatment of this patient?
A.   Aspirin desensitization
B.   Chest CT
C.   Nasal nitric oxide testing
D.   Serum immunoglobulin (Ig) E level
E.   Sweat chloride testing
21
A 34-year-old woman seeks evaluation for a complaint of cough and dyspnea on exertion that has
gradually worsened over 3 months. The patient has no past history of pulmonary complaints and has
never had asthma. She started working in a pet store approximately 6 months ago. Her duties there
include cleaning the reptile and bird cages. She reports occasional low-grade fevers but has had no
wheezing. The cough is dry and nonproductive. Before 3 months ago, the patient had no limitation of
exercise tolerance, but now she reports that she gets dyspneic climbing two flights of stairs. On
physical examination, the patient appears well. She has an oxygen saturation of 95% on room air at
rest but desaturates to 89% with ambulation. Temperature is 37.7°C (99.8°F). The pulmonary
examination is unremarkable. No clubbing or cyanosis is present. The patient has a normal chest
radiogram. A high-resolution chest CT shows diffuse ground-glass infiltrates in the lower lobes with
the presence of centrilobular nodules. A transbronchial biopsy shows an interstitial alveolar infiltrate
of plasma cells, lymphocytes, and occasional eosinophils. There are also several loose noncaseating
granulomas. All cultures are negative for bacterial, viral, and fungal pathogens. What is the
diagnosis?
A.   Aspergillosis
B.   Hypersensitivity pneumonitis
C.   Nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis related to collagen vascular disease
D.   Psittacosis
E.   Sarcoidosis
22
What treatment do you recommend for the patient in Question VI-21?
A.   Amphotericin
B.   Doxycycline
C.   Glucocorticoids
D.   Glucocorticoids plus azathioprine
E.   Glucocorticoids plus removal of antigen
23
A 75-year-old man is evaluated for a new left-sided pleural effusion and shortness of breath. He
worked as an insulation worker at a shipyard for more than 30 years and did not wear protective
respiratory equipment, retiring at the age of 60. He has a 50 pack-year history of tobacco with known
moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; FEV1 55% predicted) and a history of
myocardial infarction 10 years previously. His current medications include aspirin, atenolol,
benazepril, tiotropium, and albuterol. His physical examination is consistent with a left-sided effusion
with dullness to percussion and decreased breath sounds occurring over half of the hemithorax. On
chest x-ray, there is a moderate left-sided pleural effusion with bilateral pleural calcifications and left
apical pleural thickening. No lung mass is seen. A chest CT confirms the findings on chest x-ray and
also fails to show a mass. There is compressive atelectasis of the left lower lobe. A thoracentesis is
performed demonstrating an exudative effusion with 65% lymphocytes, 25% mesothelial cells, and
10% neutrophils. Cytology does not demonstrate any malignancy. Which of the following statements
regarding the most likely cause of the patient’s effusion or causative condition is true?
A.   Cigarette smoking increases the likelihood of developing the condition.
B.   Death in this disease is usually related to diffuse metastatic disease.
C.   Exposure to the causative agent can be as brief as 1–2 years, and latency to expression of disease
may be as great as 40 years.
D.   Repeated pleural fluid cytology will most likely lead to a definitive diagnosis.
E.   Therapy with a combination of surgical resection with adjuvant chemotherapy significantly
improves long-term survival.
24
Chronic silicosis is related to an increased risk of which of the following conditions?
A.   Infection with invasive Aspergillus
B.   Infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis
C.   Lung cancer
D.   Rheumatoid arthritis
E.   All of the above
25
All of the following occupational lung diseases are correctly matched with its exposure EXCEPT:
A.   Berylliosis—High-technology electronics
B.   Byssinosis—Cotton milling
C.   Farmer’s lung—Moldy hay
D.   Progressive massive fibrosis—Shipyard workers
E.   Metal fume fever—Welding
26
A 53-year-old man is seen in the emergency department with sudden-onset fever, chills, malaise,
and shortness of breath but no wheezing. He has no significant past medical history and is a farmer.
Of note, he worked earlier in the day stacking hay. Posteroanterior and lateral chest radiography
shows diffuse bilateral alveolar infiltrates. Which organism is most likely to be responsible for this
presentation?
A.   Nocardia asteroides
B.   Histoplasma capsulatum
C.   Cryptococcus neoformans
D.   Actinomyces species
E.   Aspergillus fumigatus
27
A 36-year-old woman is brought into intensive care after a house fire. She is obtunded but did not
suffer any major burns. She is being treated for smoke inhalation. Her initial carboxyhemoglobin
concentration is 25%. She is treated with 100% oxygen but remains obtunded. She subsequently
develops generalized seizures. Her blood pressure rapidly declines to 60/40 mmHg. The heart rate is
150 bpm. The SaO2 reading is 98%. There is a ruddy appearance to the patient’s complexion, and a
bitter almond odor is present. There is soot around the patient’s nose and mouth. The pupils are
dilated, and the skin is diaphoretic. Which of the following tests will yield the diagnosis?
A.   Ammonia concentration
B.   Blood lactate level
C.   Carboxyhemoglobin level
D.   Red blood cell cyanide concentration
E.   Methemoglobin level
28
A 51-year-old woman presents complaining of a daily cough productive of thick green sputum.
The cough is worse when she first wakes in the morning. At this time, there are occasionally streaks
of blood in the sputum. Her cough began about 7 years ago and has been progressively worse with
production of increasing volume of sputum. She currently estimates that she brings up about half a
cup of sputum daily. She reports frequently requiring antibiotics for both lower respiratory tract
infections as well as sinus infections. Bilateral coarse crackles are heard in the lower lung zones. No
clubbing is present. Pulmonary function tests demonstrate an FEV1 of 1.68 L (53.3% predicted), FVC
of 3.00 L (75% predicted), and FEV1/FVC ratio of 56%. A sputum culture grows Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. What test would you perform next in the evaluation of this patient?
A.   Barium swallow study
B.   Bronchoscopy
C.   Chest radiography
D.   High-resolution chest CT
E.   Sweat chloride testing
29
A 62-year-old woman is diagnosed with bronchiectasis following treatment for Mycobacterium
avium-intracellulare, which was confirmed on two positive expectorated sputum cultures. She is
treated for 24 months with clarithromycin, ethambutol, and rifampin, and her cultures have been
negative for mycobacteria for the past 12 months. However, she continues to produce sputum on a
daily basis, and her CT shows focal bronchiectasis in the right middle lobe. Which of the following is
the best treatment for the patient at the current time?
A.   Consult thoracic surgery for right middle lobectomy.
B.   Continue treatment with clarithromycin, ethambutol, and rifampin.
C.   Initiate airway clearance with oscillating positive expiratory pressure flutter valve.
D.   Initiate treatment with dornase (DNase).
E.   Initiate treatment with prednisone 20 mg daily.
30
An infant is diagnosed with cystic fibrosis when a sweat chloride returns positive at 110 mmol/L
after an abnormal newborn screening test. The drug ivacaftor, recently approved by the Food and
Drug Administration, is indicated in patients with which of the following genetic mutations?
A.   G542X
B.   G551D
C.   F508del
D.   621+1G>T
E.   R117C
31
Ivacaftor works in patients with cystic fibrosis by having which of the following actions on the
cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) protein?
A.   Corrects protein slicing abnormalities
B.   Improves conductance through the chloride ion pore
C.   Increases synthesis of CFTR
D.   Promotes CFTR binding at the cell membrane
E.   Stabilizes CFTR protein to prolong degradation
32
A 28-year-old woman is evaluated for recurrent lung and sinus infections. She recalls having at
least yearly episodes of bronchitis beginning in her early teens. For the past 5 years, she states that
she has been on antibiotics at least three times yearly for respiratory or sinus infections. She also
reports that she has had difficulty gaining weight and has always felt short compared to her peers. On
physical examination, the patient has a body mass index of 18.5 kg/m2. Her oxygen saturation is
95% on room air at rest. Nasal polyps are present. Coarse rhonchi and crackles are heard in the
bilateral upper lung zones. A chest radiograph shows bilateral upper lobe bronchiectasis with areas of
mucous plugging. You are concerned about the possibility of undiagnosed cystic fibrosis. Which of
the following tests would provide the strongest support for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in this
individual?
A.   DNA analysis demonstrating one copy of the F508del allele
B.   Decreased baseline nasal potential difference
C.   Presence of P aeruginosa on repeated sputum cultures
D.   Sweat chloride values >40 mmol/L
E.   Sweat chloride values >60 mmol/L
33
A 22-year-old man with cystic fibrosis is seen for a routine follow-up. He is currently treated with
recombinant human DNase and albuterol by nebulization twice daily. His primary sputum clearance
technique is aerobic exercise five times weekly and autogenic drainage. He is overall feeling well, and
his examination is normal. Pulmonary function testing demonstrates an FEV1 of 4.48 L (97%
predicted), FVC of 5.70 L (103% predicted), and FEV1/FVC ratio of 79%. A routine sputum culture
grows P aeruginosa. The only organism isolated on prior cultures has been Staphylococcus aureus.
What do you recommend for this patient?
A.   High-frequency chest wall oscillation
B.   Hypertonic saline (7%) nebulized twice daily
C.   Inhaled tobramycin 300 mg twice daily every other month
D.   Intravenous cefepime and tobramycin for 14 days
E.   Return visit in 3 months with repeat sputum cultures and treatment only if there is persistent P
aeruginosa
34
A 69-year-old man with COPD has been admitted to the hospital three times over the past year
for COPD exacerbations. He has daily cough with sputum production and an FEV1 of 45% predicted.
He previously smoked a pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years, quitting 1 year ago. His oxygen
saturation on room air is 91%. Which of the following treatments is most likely to decrease the
frequency of his exacerbations?
A.   Azithromycin 250 mg three times weekly
B.   Continuous oxygen at 2 L/min
C.   Nocturnal bilevel positive airway pressure with an inspiratory pressure of 18 cm H2O and
expiratory pressure of 12 cm H2O
D.   Roflumilast 500 μg daily
E.   Theophylline 300 mg daily
35
All of the following are risk factors for COPD EXCEPT:
A.   Airway hyperresponsiveness
B.   Coal dust exposure
C.   Passive cigarette smoke exposure
D.   Recurrent respiratory infections
E.   Use of biomass fuels in poorly ventilated areas
36
A 65-year-old woman is evaluated for dyspnea on exertion and chronic cough. She has a long
history of tobacco use, smoking 1.5 packs of cigarettes daily since the age of 20. She is a thin woman
in no obvious distress. Her oxygen saturation on room air is 93% with a respiratory rate of 22
breaths/min. The lungs are hyperexpanded on percussion with decreased breath sounds in the upper
lung fields. You suspect COPD. What are the expected findings on pulmonary function testing?
37
A 70-year-old man with known COPD is seen for follow-up. He has been clinically stable without
an exacerbation for the past 6 months. However, he generally feels in poor health and is limited in
what he can do. He reports dyspnea with usual activities. He is currently being managed with
albuterol MDI twice daily and as needed. He has a 50-pack-year history of smoking and quit 5 years
previously. His other medical problems include peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and benign
prostatic hyperplasia. He is managed with aspirin, lisinopril, hydrochlorothiazide, and tamsulosin. On
examination, the patient has a resting oxygen saturation of 93% on room air. He is hyperinflated to
percussion with decreased breath sounds at the apices and faint expiratory wheezing. His pulmonary
function tests demonstrate an FEV1 of 55% predicted, FVC of 80% predicted, and FEV1/FVC ratio of
50%. What is the next best step in the management of this patient?
A.   Initiate a trial of oral glucocorticoids for a period of 4 weeks and initiate inhaled fluticasone if
there is a significant improvement in pulmonary function.
B.   Initiate treatment with inhaled fluticasone 110 μg/puff twice daily.
C.   Initiate treatment with inhaled fluticasone 250 μg/puff in combination with inhaled salmeterol
50 mg/puff twice daily.
D.   Initiate treatment with inhaled tiotropium 18 μg/daily.
E.   Perform exercise and nocturnal oximetry and initiate oxygen therapy if these demonstrate
significant hypoxemia.
38
A 56-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with a 4-day history of increasing shortness of
breath and cough with copious sputum production. She has known severe COPD with an FEV1 of
42% predicted. On presentation, she has a room air blood gas with a pH of 7.26, PaCO2 of 78 mmHg,
and PaO2 of 50 mmHg. She is in obvious respiratory distress with use of accessory muscles and
retractions. Breath sounds are quiet with diffuse expiratory wheezing and rhonchi. No infiltrates are
present on chest radiograph. Which of the following therapies has been demonstrated to have the
greatest reduction in mortality rate for this patient?
A.   Administration of inhaled bronchodilators
B.   Administration of IV glucocorticoids
C.   Early administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics with coverage of P aeruginosa
D.   Early intubation with mechanical ventilation
E.   Use of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation
39
A 63-year-old man with a long history of cigarette smoking comes to see you for a 4-month
history of progressive shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. The symptoms have been
indolent, with no recent worsening. He denies fever, chest pain, or hemoptysis. He has a daily cough
of 3 to 6 tablespoons of yellow phlegm. The patient says he has not seen a physician for over 10
years. Physical examination is notable for normal vital signs, a prolonged expiratory phase, scattered
rhonchi, elevated jugular venous pulsation, and moderate pedal edema. Hematocrit is 49%. Which of
the following therapies is most likely to prolong his survival?
A.   Atenolol
B.   Enalapril
C.   Oxygen
D.   Prednisone
E.   Theophylline
40
A 62-year-old man is evaluated for dyspnea on exertion that has progressively worsened over a
period of 10 months. He has a 50-pack-year history of tobacco, quitting 10 years ago. On physical
examination, has a resting oxygen saturation of 94%. After ambulation of 100 m, his saturation drops
to 84%. He requires oxygen at 3 L/min to maintain his saturation at greater than 90% with
ambulation. His lung examination shows diffuse end-inspiratory crackles throughout both lungs. His
total lung capacity is 72% predicted, residual volume is 68% predicted, and diffusing capacity is 60%
predicted. The high-resolution chest CT is shown in Figure VI-40. Serologic workup for autoimmune
disease is unremarkable, and thorough history yields no exposures that would lead to these findings.
You suspect idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. What is the expected finding on surgical pathology?
FIGURE VI-40
A.   Desquamative interstitial pneumonia
B.   Diffuse alveolar damage
C.   Loosely organized granulomatous inflammation and fibrosis
D.   Nonspecific interstitial pneumonia
E.   Usual interstitial pneumonia
41
What is the recommended treatment for the patient in Question VI-40?
A.   Azathioprine 125 mg daily plus prednisone 60 mg daily
B.   Cyclophosphamide 100 mg daily
C.   Nintedanib 150 mg twice a day
D.   Prednisone 60 mg daily
E.   No therapy is effective for treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
42
What would be the expected finding on bronchoalveolar lavage in a patient with diffuse alveolar
hemorrhage?
A.   Atypical hyperplastic type II pneumocytes
B.   Ferruginous bodies
C.   Hemosiderin-laden macrophages
D.   Lymphocytosis with an elevated CD4:CD8 ratio
E.   Milky appearance with foamy macrophages
43
A 42-year-old man presents with progressive dyspnea on exertion, low-grade fevers, and weight
loss over 6 months. He also complains of a primarily dry cough, although occasionally he coughs up a
thick mucoid sputum. There is no past medical history. He does not smoke cigarettes. On physical
examination, the patient appears dyspneic with minimal exertion. The patient’s temperature is 37.9°C
(100.3°F). Oxygen saturation is 91% on room air at rest. Faint basilar crackles are heard. On
laboratory studies, the patient has polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and a hematocrit of 52%. A
CT scan reveals bilateral alveolar infiltrates that are primarily perihilar in nature with a mosaic
pattern. The patient undergoes bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage. The effluent appears
milky. The cytopathology shows amorphous debris with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)–positive
macrophages. What is the diagnosis?
A.   Bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia
B.   Desquamative interstitial pneumonitis
C.   Nocardiosis
D.   Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia
E.   Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis
44
For the patient in Question VI-43, what treatment is most appropriate at this time?
A.   Doxycycline
B.   Prednisone
C.   Prednisone and cyclophosphamide
D.   Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
E.   Whole-lung lavage
45
A 56-year-old woman presents for evaluation of dyspnea and cough for 2 months. During this
time, she has also had intermittent fevers, malaise, and a 5.5-kg (12-lb) weight loss. She denies
having any ill contacts and has not recently traveled. She works as a nurse, and a yearly purified
protein derivative test performed 3 months ago was negative. She denies any exposure to organic
dusts and does not have any birds as pets. She has no other exposures and no autoimmune symptoms.
She takes no medications regularly. On physical examination, diffuse inspiratory crackles and squeaks
are heard. A CT scan of the chest reveals patchy alveolar infiltrates and bronchial wall thickening.
Pulmonary function testing reveals mild restriction. She undergoes a surgical lung biopsy. The
pathology shows granulation tissue filling the small airways, alveolar ducts, and alveoli. The alveolar
interstitium has chronic inflammation and organizing pneumonia. What is the most appropriate
therapy for this patient?
A.   Azathioprine 100 mg daily
B.   Nintedanib 150 mg twice daily
C.   Pirfenidone 2403 mg daily
D.   Prednisone 1 mg/kg daily
E.   Referral for lung transplantation
46
A 53-year-old man is admitted with fevers and right pleuritic chest pain for 5 days. He has a
history of alcohol dependence. On presentation, his temperature is 39.2°C, heart rate is 112 bpm,
blood pressure is 102/62 mmHg, respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 92% on room air.
He has absent breath sounds in the right lower chest with dullness to percussion and decreased tactile
fremitus. Chest radiograph confirms a right lower lobe consolidation with associated effusion. The
effusion is not free flowing. Initial thoracentesis demonstrates gross pus in the pleural space, and the
Gram stain is positive for gram-positive cocci in pairs and chains. A large-bore chest tube is placed.
Which of the following treatments should also be recommended in this patient to improved resolution
of the empyema in this individual?
A.   Immediate referral for decortication
B.   Intrapleural instillation of alteplase 10 mg twice daily for 3 days
C.   Intrapleural instillation of alteplase 10 mg plus deoxyribonuclease 5 mg twice daily for 3 days
D.   Intrapleural instillation of deoxyribonuclease 5 mg twice daily for 3 days
E.   Intrapleural instillation of streptokinase 250,000 IU
47
A 44-year-old woman with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has acute hypoxemic
respiratory failure due to Pneumocystis jiroveci. She is intubated and mechanically ventilated with the
following settings: assist-control, tidal volume 350 mL (6 mL/kg ideal body weight), FiO2 1.0,
respiratory rate 28 breaths/min, and PEEP 12 cmH2O. Her arterial blood gas values on these settings
are as follows: pH 7.28, PaO2 68 mmHg, and PaCO2 64 mmHg. Her inspiratory plateau pressure is 26
cmH2O. You are called acutely to the bedside when her blood pressure abruptly drops to 70/40
mmHg. At the same time, the high-pressure alarms on the ventilator begin to alarm with peak airway
pressures now registering at 55 cmH2O. Breath sounds are inaudible on the right side and are clear
on the left. What is the best course of action at this time?
A.   Administer a fluid bolus to improve venous return.
B.   Disconnect the patient from the ventilator to allow a full exhalation.
C.   Place a large-bore needle into the right second anterior intercostal space to alleviate a tension
pneumothorax.
D.   Sedate the patient to achieve ventilator synchrony.
E.   Suction the patient to remove obstructing mucus plugs.
48
A 62-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital with a community-acquired pneumonia with a
4-day history of fever, cough, and right-sided pleuritic chest pain. The admission chest x-ray
identifies a right lower and middle lobe infiltrate with an associated effusion. All of the following
characteristics of the pleural effusion indicate a complicated effusion that may require tube
thoracostomy EXCEPT:
A.   Loculated fluid
B.   Pleural fluid pH <7.20
C.   Pleural fluid glucose <60 mg/dL
D.   Positive Gram stain or culture of the pleural fluid
E.   Recurrence of fluid following the initial thoracentesis
49
A 58-year-old man is evaluated for dyspnea and found to have a moderate right-sided pleural
effusion. He undergoes thoracentesis with the following characteristics.
Which of the following is NOT likely to be a cause of the pleural effusion in this patient?
A.   Cirrhosis
B.   Lung cancer
C.   Mesothelioma
D.   Pulmonary embolism
E.   Tuberculosis
50
A 28-year-old man presents to the emergency department with acute-onset shortness of breath
and pleuritic chest pain on the right that began 2 hours previously. He is generally healthy and has
no medical history. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily since the age of 18. On physical
examination, he is tall and thin, with a body mass index of 19.2 kg/m2. He has a respiratory rate of
24 breaths/min with an oxygen saturation of 95% on room air. He has slightly decreased breath
sounds at the right lung apex. A chest x-ray demonstrates a 20% pneumothorax on the right. Which
of the following statements is true regarding pneumothorax in this patient?
A.   A CT scan is likely to show emphysematous changes.
B.   If the patient were to develop recurrent pneumothoraces, thoracoscopy with pleural abrasion has
a success rate of near 100% for prevention of recurrence.
C.   Most patients with this presentation require tube thoracostomy to resolve the pneumothorax.
D.   The likelihood of recurrent pneumothorax is about 25%.
E.   The primary risk factor for the development of spontaneous pneumothorax is a tall and thin body
habitus.
51
A 52-year-old woman from Indiana presents with worsening dyspnea on exertion and cough for a
year. She denies dyspnea at rest. The cough is predominantly dry, but occasionally productive of a
gritty mucus. Her past medical history is positive for hypertension and hypothyroidism. She takes
benazepril and levothyroxine. She has primarily worked as a landscaper throughout her adult life. On
physical examination, she appears in no distress. Her oxygen saturation is 95% on room air. Chest is
clear to auscultation. Cardiovascular examination is unremarkable. She has no peripheral edema. The
chest radiograph shows an old granuloma in the right lung and mediastinal calcifications. A CT scan
is performed, which confirms the healed granuloma. Extensive mediastinal calcification is seen. The
calcifications encase the superior vena cava and the right mainstem bronchus. An interferon-γ assay
is negative. Which of the following statements regarding the patient’s conditions is true?
A.   A urine Histoplasma antigen test will be positive.
B.   The most common cause of the condition is histoplasmosis or tuberculosis.
C.   The patient should be referred to a surgical center specialized in the treatment of this condition.
D.   Treatment with corticosteroids will improve the patient’s condition.
E.   Treatment with itraconazole or voriconazole will improve the patient’s condition.
52
A 52-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital with lethargy and marked symptoms of volume
overload. She has a past medical history of morbid obesity with a body mass index of 52 kg/m2,
severe obstructive sleep apnea, hypertension, and type 1 diabetes mellitus. She is in generally poor
health and has been noncompliant with her insulin as well as with continuous positive airway
pressure (CPAP) as she reports claustrophobia. She cannot recall when she last used CPAP therapy.
On physical examination, the patient is somnolent but arousable. Her vital signs are as follows: blood
pressure 168/92 mmHg, heart rate 92 bpm, respiratory rate 14 breaths/min, afebrile, and SaO2 82%
on room air. Her SaO2 increases to 92% on 6 L/min by nasal cannula, but her mental status becomes
more lethargic. She has distant heart and lung sounds without crackles. There is 4+ edema
bilaterally to the thighs and onto the abdominal wall. Chest x-ray shows low lung volumes. Initial
arterial blood gas values on 6 L/min nasal oxygen are pH 7.22, PaCO2 88 mmHg, and PaO2 72
mmHg. Which of the following statements is true regarding the patient’s condition?
A.   Abnormalities of the PHOX2b gene are associated with this condition.
B.   CPAP therapy alone is adequate for treatment of this patient.
C.   Initial treatment of the condition should include intubation and mechanical ventilation given the
patient’s known intolerance of CPAP therapy.
D.   Obstructive sleep apnea coexists with the diagnosis in about 75% of cases.
E.   Weight loss will lead to improvements in PaCO2 over time.
53
A patient with mild amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is followed by a pulmonologist for respiratory
dysfunction associated with his neuromuscular disease. Which of the following symptoms in addition
to PaCO2 ≥45 mmHg would necessitate therapy with noninvasive positive- pressure ventilation for
hypoventilation?
A.   Orthopnea
B.   Poor quality sleep
C.   Impaired cough
D.   Dyspnea in activities of daily living
E.   All of the above
54
A 52-year-old man is evaluated for loud snoring and daytime fatigue. His wife urged him to come
in for evaluation because his snoring has become increasingly disruptive over the past 2 years after
he gained about 30 lb. She frequently sleeps in another room and reports that she has seen him stop
breathing during sleep. During the day, he struggles to stay awake when he is in meetings or sitting
at his computer, particularly after lunch. He has a 40-minute commute and has had to pull off the
road due to feelings of sleepiness. He has a medical history of hypertension for the past 5 years and
takes losartan 25 mg daily. He does not smoke and drinks one beer or glass of wine daily. His father,
who is 75 years old, uses a CPAP machine for obstructive sleep apnea and has also had a myocardial
infarction. On physical examination, the patient appears well. He has a body mass index of 37.1
kg/m2. When the patient opens his mouth, you can see most of his uvula, which appears somewhat
edematous. Tonsillar tissue is visible and extends just beyond tonsillar pillars. The neck
circumference is 43 cm. What is the next step in the evaluation and treatment of this patient?
A.   Attended in-lab polysomnogram
B.   Home sleep study
C.   Overnight oximetry
D.   Referral for tonsillectomy
E.   Treatment with autotitrating CPAP
55
A 48-year-old man has recently been diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea with an apnea-
hypopnea index of 21.2/hr. He presents to the clinic for follow-up because he tried CPAP in the sleep
laboratory and felt uncomfortable with it. He asks what the potential risks would be to his health if
he chose to forego treatment. What advice do you give him?
A.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea has an increased risk of mortality due to cardiovascular events
including myocardial infarction and stroke.
B.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea has an increased risk of depression.
C.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with a sevenfold increased risk of automobile
accidents.
D.   Untreated obstructive sleep apnea raises nocturnal blood pressure, and treatment with CPAP
leads to a 2- to 4-mmHg drop in blood pressure.
E.   All of the above is good advice to give to the patient.
56
Which patient below is most likely to have the breathing pattern seen in Figure VI-56 on
polysomnography?
FIGURE VI-56
A.   A 6-year-old boy with poor school performance, snoring, and enlarged tonsils and adenoids
B.   A 36-year-old woman with a history of heroin addiction who is being treated with methadone
maintenance therapy at a dose of 100 mg daily
C.   A 48-year-old man evaluated for loud snoring and excessive sleepiness with a body mass index of
36.8 kg/m2
D.   A 52-year-old woman with a body mass index of 22 kg/m2 complaining of frequent nocturnal
awakenings in the setting of menopause; she does not snore
E.   A 68-year-old man with atrial fibrillation and ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction
of 15%; on examination, he has elevation of the jugular venous pressure, hepatojugular reflux,
and 3+ peripheral edema
57
A 48-year-old man with a body mass index of 28.9 kg/m2 is diagnosed with obstructive sleep
apnea with an apnea-hypopnea index of 42/hr and a minimum oxygen saturation of 78%. What is the
most appropriate initial therapy for this patient?
A.   CPAP
B.   Oral appliance therapy
C.   Oxygen therapy
D.   Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty
E.   Weight loss
58
A 47-year-old woman with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension has failed medical therapy
including IV epoprostenol. She has advanced right heart failure with severe right ventricular
dysfunction on echocardiography and a cardiac index of 1.7 L/min/m2. She is referred for lung
transplantation. Which of the following statements is true?
A.   She will require heart-lung transplantation for her advanced right heart failure.
B.   Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension patients have worse 5-year survival than other
transplant recipients.
C.   Single-lung transplantation is the preferred surgical procedure for idiopathic pulmonary arterial
hypertension.
D.   Her own right ventricular function will recover after lung transplantation.
E.   She is at risk for recurrent pulmonary arterial hypertension after lung transplantation.
59
A 25-year-old woman with cystic fibrosis is referred for lung transplantation. She is concerned
about her long-term outcome. Which of the following is the main impediment to long-term survival
after lung transplantation?
A.   Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome
B.   Cytomegalovirus infection
C.   Chronic kidney disease
D.   Primary graft dysfunction
E.   Posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder
60
A 30-year-old man with end-stage cystic fibrosis undergoes lung transplantation. Three years
later, he has a 6-month progressive decline in his renal function. Which of the following medications
is the most likely etiology of this?
A.   Prednisone
B.   Tacrolimus
C.   Albuterol
D.   Mycophenolate mofetil
E.   None of the above
61
A 48-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with acute respiratory distress syndrome and shock
due to ascending cholangitis. Her Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation Score (APACHE
II) is 19 at 24 hours. Which statement best describes the performance of severity of illness scoring
systems in predicting outcomes for a patient such as the one described?
A.   The APACHE II score and other severity of illness tools are useful for informing clinical research
in critical illness, especially regarding severity of illness in patients enrolled in clinical trials.
B.   The APACHE II score is an important predictor of individual mortality when directly applied to
patient care.
C.   The APACHE II score should be used to guide therapy in this patient.
D.   The Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II) would perform better at predicting mortality
than the APACHE II score.
E.   All of the above are true.
62
A 42-year-old man is admitted to the ICU after an automobile accident. He suffered a compound
fracture of the femur and also had internal bleeding from a ruptured spleen and liver hematoma. He
has undergone splenectomy and fixation of the femur fracture. He is intubated and sedated following
surgery. His hemoglobin after surgery is 5.2 g/dL. His oxygen saturation is 92%, and his PaO2 is 72
mmHg on FiO2 of 0.6. A pulmonary artery catheter was placed during surgery. His cardiac output is
7.8 L/min. A lactate level is 4.8 mmol/L. Which of the following is the least important factor
affecting oxygen delivery in this patient?
A.   Cardiac output
B.   Hemoglobin concentration
C.   PaO2
D.   SaO2
63
A 67-year-old woman was admitted to the ICU with multilobar pneumonia due to Streptococcus
pneumoniae and COPD. She requires intubation and mechanical ventilation. All of the following are
appropriate interventions to prevent complications in the ICU EXCEPT:
A.   Administration of enoxaparin 40 mg daily
B.   Administration of omeprazole 20 mg daily
C.   Aggressive blood glucose control
D.   Early mobilization and physical therapy while mechanically ventilated
E.   Use of a standard care bundle for insertion of central lines
64
A 68-year-old man is admitted to the ICU with fevers, hypotension, and hypoxemia. He has felt ill
for the past 2 to 3 days with progressive dyspnea at home. He has a history of COPD, coronary artery
disease requiring three-vessel coronary artery bypass surgery, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. He
continues to smoke a pack of cigarettes daily and also drinks a six-pack of beer daily. On
presentation, his room air oxygen saturation is 79%. With a non-rebreather mask, his oxygen
saturation remains at 87%. His blood pressure is 74/40 mmHg, and heart rate is 124 bpm. After fluid
bolus, his blood pressure remains low at 86/53 mmHg. His chest radiograph is shown in Figure VI-
64. Within 12 hours after admission, blood cultures are positive for S pneumoniae. He received his
first dose of antibiotics in the emergency department and remains on treatment with ceftriaxone and
moxifloxacin. He is intubated, sedated, and currently on vasopressor support. His blood gas after
intubation is pH 7.28, PaCO2 52 mmHg, and PaO2 64 mmHg on FiO2 0.8. Which of the following
best identifies the patient’s diagnosis?
FIGURE VI-64
A.   Acute interstitial pneumonia
B.   Mild acute respiratory distress syndrome
C.   Moderate acute respiratory distress syndrome
D.   Multilobar community acquired pneumonia
E.   Severe acute respiratory distress syndrome
65
If a lung biopsy were to be taken 4 days after admission in the patient described in Question VI-
64, which statement correctly identifies the expected findings?
A.   Diffuse alveolar damage with hyaline membranes and protein-rich edema fluid in alveoli
B.   Extensive eosinophil-rich infiltrate with protein-rich edema fluid
C.   Extensive fibrosis of the alveolar ducts with development of bullae
D.   Homogeneous infiltrate of neutrophils and leukocytes affecting all alveolar spaces
E.   Proliferation of type II pneumocytes and presence of a lymphocyte-rich pulmonary infiltrate
66
A 48-year-old woman is admitted to the surgical ICU following a motor vehicle accident. She has
suffered a concussion, fractures of ribs 4 through 8 on the left with a hemopneumothorax, and a
lacerated spleen that required splenectomy. During the surgery to remove her spleen, she required
transfusion of 6 units of packed red blood cells, 6 units of platelets, and 4 units of fresh frozen
plasma. Upon admission to the ICU after surgery, she remains intubated and sedated. A chest tube is
in place on the left. Her chest radiograph shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates. The left lung has dense
infiltrates, and there are also extensive infiltrates on the right. She is diagnosed with a left lung
contusion and acute respiratory distress syndrome. She weighs 90 kg. She is 66 inches in height. Her
ideal body weight is 59 kg. Her oxygen saturation on FiO2 1.0 is 92% with an arterial blood gas
showing pH of 7.28, PaCO2 of 48 mmHg, and PaO2 of 68 mmHg. What is the best initial tidal volume
in this patient?
A.   236 mL
B.   354 mL
C.   472 mL
D.   540 mL
E.   590 mL
67
You are managing a patient admitted to the medical ICU for severe acute respiratory distress
syndrome due to necrotizing pancreatitis. The patient has an ideal body weight of 70 kg. The
patient’s ventilator is set on a volume control with a respiratory rate of 28 bpm, tidal volume of 420
mL, FiO2 of 0.7, and PEEP of 8 cmH2O. The patient is hypoxemic with an SaO2 of 86% on these
settings. You review the static pressure-volume curve for the respiratory system. The lower inflection
point is at 12 cmH2O. The upper inflection point is at 30 cmH2O. Measured pressure with an
inspiratory hold is 26 cmH2O. Which of the following is the best choice to improve oxygenation in
this patient?
A.   Administer a paralytic agent
B.   Decrease tidal volume to 350 mL
C.   Increase FiO2 to 0.8
D.   Increase PEEP to 12 cmH2O
E.   Increase tidal volume to 560 mL
68
A 75-year-old man is admitted to the ICU for sepsis in the setting of neutropenia due to
chemotherapy for gastric cancer. He has severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and requires
intubation. During the first 48 hours of his ICU stay, his volume status is positive 6 L. Which of the
following statements regarding fluid management in acute respiratory distress syndrome is true?
A.   Aggressive diuresis to maintain a low left atrial filling pressure is associated with increased risk
of acute kidney injury requiring hemodialysis.
B.   Maintaining a low left atrial filling pressure through diuresis improves lung compliance and
improves oxygenation.
C.   Maintaining a low left atrial filling pressure through diuresis shortens ICU stay and decreases
mortality in the medical intensive care unit, but not the surgical ICU.
D.   Placement of a pulmonary arterial catheter for accurate measurement of left atrial filling pressure
improves diagnostic accuracy and provides added benefit in determining fluid management
strategy.
69
In which of the following situations would noninvasive mechanical ventilation be considered
contraindicated?
A.   Acute exacerbation of COPD
B.   Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure in an individual with acute respiratory distress syndrome
C.   Acute myocardial infarction
D.   Decompensated systolic heart failure without acute myocardial ischemia
E.   After extubation in an individual who had been intubated for COPD
74
A 62-year-old woman was intubated for community-acquired pneumonia and sepsis. Upon
admission to the ICU, she was hypotensive and required vasopressor treatment. She was sedated with
propofol to achieve comfort on the ventilator. The ICU has a daily protocol for sedation interruption.
She currently has been intubated for 8 days. Which of the following is a contraindication to a
spontaneous breathing trial in this patient?
A.   Improving infiltrates on chest radiograph
B.   FiO2 of 0.45
C.   Ongoing need for vasopressor support
D.   Patient is breathing over the set respiratory rate by 8 breaths/min
E.   PEEP of 8 cmH2O
75
All of the following statements regarding the pathophysiology of shock are true EXCEPT:
A.   Hypotension inhibits the vasomotor center, resulting in decreased adrenergic output and
increased vagal activity.
B.   Metabolic changes, including glycolysis and lipolysis, raise extracellular osmolarity, leading to an
osmotic gradient that increases interstitial volume at the expense of intracellular fluid volume.
C.   Mitochondrial dysfunction and uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation lead to decreased
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels and a consequent accumulation of lactate and other reactive
oxygen species.
D.   Proinflammatory mediators stimulated by the innate immune system contribute significantly to
multiple organ dysfunction and failure in shock.
E.   Severe stress or pain causes increased release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH),
subsequently increasing cortisol levels to increase gluconeogenesis, decrease peripheral uptake of
glucose and amino acids, and enhance lipolysis.
76
A person is admitted to the neurologic ICU with a C2-3 spinal cord transection. The patient is in
shock with a blood pressure of 72/40 mmHg. What would the expected findings be on a pulmonary
artery catheter?
77
All of the following statements regarding the epidemiology of sepsis and septic shock are true
EXCEPT:
A.   Gram-positive bacteria are the most commonly isolated causative organisms in sepsis syndromes.
B.   In individuals with septic shock, blood cultures are positive in 40%–70% of cases.
C.   Most cases of sepsis occur in individuals with significant underlying illness.
D.   Respiratory infections are the most common cause of sepsis syndromes.
E.   The annual incidence of severe sepsis has increased over the past 30 years with a current
incidence of approximately 3 per 1000 population.
78
A 62-year-old woman presents to the emergency department for evaluation of fevers and
respiratory symptoms. She began to feel ill about 2 days ago, and her symptoms have been
progressively worse since that time. She has a past medical history of rheumatoid arthritis and takes
adalimumab 40 mg every other week. On presentation in the emergency department, the patient
appears acutely ill and dyspneic. Her oxygen saturation is 84% on room air with a respiratory rate of
25 breaths/min. Initial blood pressure is 82/44 mmHg, heart rate is 132 bpm, and temperature is
101.9°F. She has crackles over the entire lower half of her right lung. Her chest radiograph shows
consolidation of the right lower and middle lobes without a pleural effusion. Blood and sputum
cultures are drawn. The patient is begun on IV hydration and treatment with ceftriaxone and
moxifloxacin. After 2 hours, the patient has received 2 L of normal saline. Her blood pressure is
98/70 mmHg with a heart rate of 125 bpm. She is requiring 50% oxygen by nasal mask to maintain
her SaO2 at 92%–94%. Since presentation to the emergency department, she has produced 100 mL of
urine. A blood gas is performed with a pH of 7.46, PaCO2 of 32 mmHg, and PaO2 of 76 mmHg. How
would this patient’s presentation be classified?
A.   Refractory septic shock
B.   Septic shock
C.   Sepsis
D.   Signs of possibly harmful systemic response
E.   Systemic inflammatory response syndrome
79
A 68-year-old man is admitted to the ICU with septic shock. He initially presented with
hypotension and fever to 102.5°F. After a 3-L normal saline bolus, he continues to be hypotensive and
requires vasopressor support with norepinephrine at 10 μg/min. On presentation, no source of
infection is readily apparent. Blood and urine cultures are obtained. The patient is unable to
expectorate sputum. The patient’s past medical history is significant for COPD, coronary artery
disease, and alcohol abuse. He also was in a motor vehicle accident 20 years ago that resulted in
splenectomy. He has no medication allergies. The local incidence of cephalosporin-resistant S
pneumoniae is >1%. Which of the following is the recommended empiric antibiotic regimen for this
patient?
A.   Cefotaxime
B.   Cefotaxime plus vancomycin
C.   Levofloxacin
D.   Levofloxacin plus vancomycin
E.   Vancomycin
80
Despite appropriate antibiotic therapy and supportive care, the mortality related to sepsis
remains high with 40%–60% of patients with septic shock dying within 30 days. Multiple therapies
have been attempted to improve this mortality, but many of these have been found to be ineffective
after initially promising results. Examples of these include all of the following EXCEPT:
A.   Activated protein C
B.   Erythrocyte transfusions to maintain a hemoglobin level >7 g/dL
C.   Insulin therapy to achieve tight glucose control (100–120 mg/dL)
D.   Performance of adrenocorticotropin hormone stimulation tests for adrenal insufficiency
E.   Tissue factor pathway inhibitor
81
A 62-year-old man is brought to the emergency department for chest pain that developed while
he was shoveling snow after a winter storm. The pain started abruptly 30 minutes ago and is
associated with shortness of breath and nausea. The pain is rated a 10 out of 10, has an intense
pressure-like quality, and is radiating down his left arm. He called for an ambulance within 10
minutes of the onset of pain. He has a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, tobacco use, and
alcohol abuse. He has been prescribed candesartan 16 mg daily and atorvastatin 10 mg daily.
However, he has not seen his doctor in more than a year. He continues to smoke 1.5 packs of tobacco
daily and also drinks 6–10 beers daily. On presentation, his blood pressure is 84/50 mmHg, heart
rate is 132 bpm, respiratory rate is 28 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 91% on room air. He appears in
severe distress due to pain and dyspnea. He is diaphoretic and pale. His cardiovascular examination
shows a regular tachycardia with a soft S1, and an S3 gallop is present. There are crackles bilaterally
present throughout both lungs. His pulses are thready and weak. Chest radiograph shows pulmonary
edema. His ECG is shown in Figure VI-81.
FIGURE VI-81 From Crawford MH: Current Diagnosis & Treatment: Cardiology, 4th ed. New York, NY:
McGraw-Hill, 2009.
He is having frequent ectopy and short runs of ventricular tachycardia. The patient is given nitroglycerin
and aspirin. The cardiac catheterization laboratory is being readied for primary revascularization.
However, in the meantime, the patient continues to decline. He is intubated. His blood pressure
continues to fall and is most recently 76/52 mmHg with a heart rate of 122 bpm. What is the best
option for initial treatment of hypotension in this patient?
A.   Dopamine 5 μg/kg/min IV continuous infusion
B.   Initiation of venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
C.   Nitroglycerin 10 μg/min IV continuous infusion
D.   Placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump
E.   Vasopressin 0.05 U/min IV continuous infusion
82
A 72-year-old man with known ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy and an ejection fraction of 20%
is admitted to the coronary care unit with decompensated heart failure. His blood pressure is 74/56
mmHg, and heart rate is 108 bpm. His oxygen saturation is 85% on a non-rebreather mask. His chest
radiograph shows diffuse pulmonary edema and bilateral effusions. There is 4+ pitting edema
bilaterally throughout both legs and in the sacrum. He has evidence of ascites. His extremities are
cool to touch and cyanotic. His mental status is poor. He is lethargic and does not respond to his
name. All of the following would be indicated in the initial treatment of this patient EXCEPT:
A.   Dobutamine 5 μg/kg/min IV
B.   Furosemide 60 mg IV
C.   Initiation of mechanical ventilation
D.   Morphine 2 mg IV
E.   Norepinephrine 5 μg/min IV
83
A 52-year-old woman is in the coronary care unit after an acute myocardial infarction in the
anterior distribution. She was revascularized with a primary percutaneous angioplasty of the
proximal left anterior descending artery. Twelve hours after the procedures, you are called to the
bedside for an acute decline in blood pressure and dyspnea. Two hours previously, her blood pressure
was 115/72 mmHg. Her current blood pressure is 90/78 mmHg. Her heart rate has increased from 88
to 120 bpm. Her oxygen saturation has declined to 86% on room air. She is diaphoretic and pale. She
appears in marked distress. There is development of a new cardiac holosystolic murmur heard at the
apex and radiating across the precordium into the left axilla. You suspect acute mitral regurgitation.
Which of the following would be the expected findings if a pulmonary artery catheter was in place?
84
All of the following statements regarding sudden cardiac death are true EXCEPT:
A.   An individual can be classified as having sudden cardiac death following a resuscitated cardiac
arrest if death occurs during the subsequent hospitalization or within the next 30 days.
B.   Approximately 66% of individuals who experience sudden cardiac death have had prior cardiac
events.
C.   Asystole is the most commonly encountered rhythm in an individual with sudden cardiac death.
D.   Parental history of sudden cardiac death as a first cardiac event increases the probability of a
sudden cardiac event in offspring.
E.   The incidence of sudden cardiac death is higher in the African American population compared to
the white population.
85
Which of the following states correctly identifies a patient in a coma?
A.   Akinetic mutism
B.   Catatonia
C.   Locked-in state
D.   Metabolic encephalopathy
E.   Persistent vegetative state
86
A 74-year-old woman was admitted to the neurologic ICU with decreased alertness that
progressed to coma following a fall on an icy sidewalk. On physical examination, the patient is
minimally responsive to painful stimuli. The left pupil is enlarged. Right Babinski is upgoing, and
there is apparent weakness of the right side. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is performed
(Figure VI-86). What is the etiology of the coma in this patient?
FIGURE VI-86
A.   Compression of the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries
B.   Compression of the midbrain against the opposite tentorial edge
C.   Compression of the opposite cerebral peduncle against the tentorial edge
D.   Displacement of the cerebellar tonsils into the foramen magnum
E.   Entrapment of the ventricular system causing hydrocephalus
87
A 44-year-old woman is admitted to the intensive care unit with decreased alertness. She was
brought to the hospital after she was found unresponsive at home when she failed to show up for
lunch with her mother. She has been feeling depressed after losing her job 2 months ago. She lives
alone after a divorce 10 years ago. She has no pertinent past medical history, but her mother is
uncertain whether the patient takes any medications. Her blood pressure on admission is 92/54
mmHg, heart rate is 112 bpm, respiratory rate is 24 breaths/min, and SaO2 is 99% on room air.
Temperature is 38.2°C. She appears flushed and has deep rapid breathing. She is unresponsive to
voice, but withdraws to painful stimuli. She has intermittent muscular spasms diffusely. Her pupils
are 5 mm and reactive. What is the most likely etiology of the patient’s coma?
A.   Concussion
B.   Cortical vein thrombosis
C.   Drug intoxication
D.   Systemic infection
E.   Meningeal infection
88
A 48-year-old man was admitted to the ICU with a large intracranial bleed following a
motorcycle accident. On initial CT scan, there was midline shift and evidence of uncal herniation. At
the scene of the accident, the patient was initially minimally response but has been totally
unresponsive to all stimuli since admission. The patient was intubated by emergency medical services
en route to the hospital. He has now been admitted for 24 hours. You believe the patient is brain
dead. Which of the following contributes to the diagnosis of brain death?
A.   Absence of pupillary light reflex
B.   Apnea
C.   Loss of oculovestibular reflexes
D.   Unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation
E.   All of the above are criteria for assessment of brain death.
89
Intraparenchymal intracranial pressure monitoring is preferred over ventriculostomy in which of
the following patients?
A.   A 24-year-old man admitted with traumatic brain injury following a motor vehicle accident and a
Glasgow Coma Scale score of 6
B.   A 35-year-old woman with autoimmune hepatitis admitted with fulminant hepatic failure and an
international normalized ratio of 3.5
C.   A 48-year-old man admitted to the ICU with subarachnoid hemorrhage following a rupture of an
anterior cerebral artery aneurysm
D.   A 68-year-old woman admitted with a hemorrhagic stroke in the right temporal region with
associated midline shift visualized on CT scan
E.   All of the above are appropriate candidates for ventriculostomy.
90
A 55-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU following a subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a
rupture of the posterior communicating artery. The patient is treated with intravascular placement of
a coil in the aneurysm, and a ventriculostomy is placed for intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring.
Upon arrival to the ICU after surgery, she is intubated and minimally responsive to painful stimuli.
She does not respond to voice. The initial ICP is 45 mmHg, and the initial blood pressure is 138/85
mmHg (mean arterial pressure, 103 mmHg) with the head of the bed elevated at 30 degrees. The ICP
remains at 45 mmHg over the next 5 minutes. What would you recommend next in the management
of this patient?
A.   Administer 30 mL of 23.4% hypertonic saline
B.   Administer dexamethasone 4 mg every 6 hours
C.   Do nothing as patient has an adequate cerebral perfusion pressure
D.   Drain ventriculostomy to attain an ICP <20–25 mmHg
E.   Increase respiratory rate on the ventilator to decrease the PaCO2 to 30 mmHg
91
A 56-year-old man is admitted to the hospital following a witnessed cardiac arrest. Upon arrival
of emergency medical personnel, the rhythm is ventricular fibrillation. The patient is cardioverted
into sinus rhythm with return of spontaneous circulation. His estimated duration without circulation
is 10 minutes. ECG demonstrated evidence of acute myocardial infarction in an anterior distribution.
The patient is treated with primary angioplasty of a 100% occlusion of the proximal left anterior
descending artery. He is brought to the ICU intubated and requires use of norepinephrine to maintain
his mean arterial pressure greater than 60 mmHg. Initial neurologic examination shows absence of
corneal and gag reflexes. When you move the head side to side, the eyes move in concert with the
head movement and do not stay fixed. Intermittent myoclonus is present. You are considering use of
hypothermia. Which of the following statements correctly characterizes the use of hypothermia in
this patient?
A.   A head CT should be performed to determine the extent of cerebral edema before deciding upon
whether to employ therapeutic hypothermia.
B.   Temperature management should be directed at prevention of fevers only with a target
temperature of 36°C.
C.   Therapeutic hypothermia is recommended to target a temperature of 32–34°C for 24 hours.
D.   There is no role for therapeutic hypothermia because the patient’s prognosis is very poor.
E.   There is no role for therapeutic hypothermia because it does not change patient outcomes.
92
A 67-year-old man has been in the ICU for 3 weeks after admission for sepsis due to
pneumococcal pneumonia. He is currently on minimal ventilatory support with inspiratory pressure
support of 15 cmH2O and expiratory pressure of 5 cmH2O. The FiO2 is 0.4. Spontaneous tidal
volumes on these settings average 450 mL. He is no longer sedated, appears alert, and is following
commands. He appears weak and debilitated. He is not able to lift his arms or legs off the bed. His
chest radiograph shows marked improvement in the bilateral infiltrates. For the past week, he has
failed spontaneous breathing trials. When the inspiratory pressure support is dropped to less than 10
cmH2O, the patient begins to breathe rapidly at 28 breaths/min, and the tidal volume drops to 220
mL. What is the most likely cause of the patient’s inability to be liberated from the ventilator?
A.   Critical illness myopathy
B.   Critical illness polyneuropathy
C.   Fibroproliferative progression of acute respiratory distress syndrome
D.   Guillain-Barré syndrome
E.   ICU-associated delirium
93
A 56-year-old woman is admitted to the ICU with a thunderclap headache and a rupture of an
aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery. She is treated with endovascular coiling. On admission to
the ICU, she was originally intubated and sedated. Over the course of 4 days, she is extubated but
continues to demonstrate right hemiparesis and aphasia. Seven days after her presentation, she
abruptly declines with alert mental status and marked worsening of her hemiparesis. A head CT is
performed urgently and does not show any progression of bleeding or widening of the ventricles. She
has been on nimodipine 60 mg every 4 hours since presentation. What is the most likely diagnosis for
her worsened condition?
A.   Cerebral edema
B.   Hydrocephalus
C.   Hyponatremia
D.   Rerupture of the coiled aneurysm
E.   Vasospasm
94
What treatment would you recommend for the patient in Question VI-93 at this time?
A.   Consult neurosurgery for clipping of the aneurysm
B.   Free water restriction
C.   Placement of a ventriculostomy
D.   Intubation with hyperventilation and treatment with mannitol
E.   Intravenous norepinephrine and consultation for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty
95
A 64-year-old man presents to the emergency department complaining of shortness of breath and
facial swelling. He smokes one pack of cigarettes daily and has done so since the age of 16. On
physical examination, he appears dyspneic at an angle of 45 degrees or less. His vital signs are as
follows: heart rate 124 bpm, blood pressure 164/98 mmHg, respiratory rate 28 breaths/min,
temperature 37.6°C (99.6°F), and oxygen saturation 89% on room air. Pulsus paradoxus is not
present. His neck veins are dilated and do not collapse with inspiration. Collateral venous dilation is
noted on the upper chest wall. There is facial edema and 1+ edema of the upper extremities
bilaterally. Cyanosis is present. There is dullness to percussion and decreased breath sounds over the
lower half of the right lung field. Given this clinical scenario, what would be the most likely finding
on CT examination of the chest?
A.   A central mass lesion obstructing the right mainstem bronchus
B.   A large apical mass invading the chest wall and brachial plexus
C.   A large pericardial effusion
D.   A massive pleural effusion leading to opacification of the right hemithorax
E.   Enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes causing obstruction of the superior vena cava
96
In the scenario described in Question VI-95, the initial therapy of this patient includes all of the
following EXCEPT:
A.   Administration of furosemide as needed to achieve diuresis
B.   Elevation of the head of the bed to 45 degrees
C.   Emergent radiation
D.   Low-sodium diet
E.   Oxygen
97
A 58-year-old woman with known stage IV breast cancer presents to the emergency department
with inability to move her legs. She has had lower back pain for the past 4 days and has found it
difficult to lie down. There is no radiating pain. Earlier today, the patient lost the ability to move
either of her legs. In addition, she has been incontinent of urine recently. She was diagnosed
previously with metastatic disease to the lung and pleura from her breast cancer but was not known
to have spinal or brain metastases. Her physical examination confirms absence of movement in the
bilateral lower extremities associated with decreased to absent sensation below the umbilicus. There
is increased tone and 3+ deep tendon reflexes in the lower extremities with crossed adduction. Anal
sphincter tone is decreased, and the anal wink reflex is absent. What is the most important first step
to take in the management of this patient?
A.   Administration of dexamethasone 10 mg IV
B.   Consult neurosurgery for emergent spinal decompression
C.   Consult radiation oncology for emergent spinal radiation
D.   Perform MRI of the brain
E.   Perform MRI of the entire spinal cord
98
A 21-year-old man is treated with induction chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. His
initial white blood cell count prior to treatment was 156,000/μL. All of the following are expected
complications during his treatment EXCEPT:
A.   Acute kidney injury
B.   Hypercalcemia
C.   Hyperkalemia
D.   Hyperphosphatemia
E.   Hyperuricemia
99
All of the following would be important for prevention of the complications described in Question
VI-98 EXCEPT:
A.   Administration of allopurinol 300 mg/m2 daily
B.   Administration of IV fluids at a minimum of 3000 mL/m2 daily
C.   Alkalinization of the urine to a pH of greater than 7.0 by administration of sodium bicarbonate
D.   Frequent monitoring of serum chemistries every 4 hours
E.   Prophylactic hemodialysis prior to initiating chemotherapy